SUMMARY

I N T R O D U C T I O N In which, as you will soon find out,

Damnation has its origin vii

I A N T O N V O W L

1 Which at first calls to mind a probably familiar story of a

drunk man waking up with his brain in a whirl 3

2 In which luck, God's alias and alibi, plays a callous trick on a

suitor cast away on an island 12

3 Concluding with an immoral papacy's abolition and its

claimant's contrition 25

4 Which, notwithstanding a kind of McGujfin, has no ambition

to rival Hitchcock 37

6 Which, following a compilation of a polymath's random

jottings, will finish with a visit to a zoo 44

7 In which an unknown individual has it in for Moroccan

solicitors 57

8 In which you will find a word or two about a burial mound

that brought glory to Trajan 69

III D O U G L A S H A I G C L I F F O R D

9 In which an amazing thing occurs to an unwary basso profunda 81

10 Which will, I trust, gratify fanatics of Pindaric lyricism 93

11 Which will finish by arousing pity in a big shot 110

12 In which an umbilical ruby avails a bastard's anglicisation 122

13 On a fantastic charm that a choral work by Anton Dvorak

starts to cast on a billiard board 128

14 In which you will find a carp scornfully turning down a halva

fit for a king 140

I V O L G A M A V R O K H O R D A T O S

15 In which, untying a long string of fabrications and

falsifications, you will find out at last what sank that imposing

Titanic 155

16 Which will furnish a probationary boost to a not always

almighty dollar ($) 163

17 In which you will know what Vladimir Ilich thought of

Hollywood 170

18 For which many will no doubt claim that it adds much that

is crucial to our story 174

19 On running a risk by asking for a fish farci 184

20 Which, notwithstanding two paragraphs full of brio and

inspiration, will draw to an ominous conclusion 196

V A M A U R Y C O N S O N

21 In which, following a pithy summary of our plot so far, a fourth

fatality will occur, that of a man who has had a significant

part to play in this book 207

22 In which you will find an old family custom obliging a brainy

youth to finish his Gradus ad Parnassum with six killings 221

23 In which an anxious sibling turns a hoard of cash found in a

drum to fairly satisfactory account 238

24 Which, starting with a downcast husband, will finish with a

furious sibling 253

V I A R T H U R W I L B U R G S A V O R G N A N

25 Which contains, in its last paragraph, a highly significant

blank 265

26 Which, as you must know by now, is this book's last 273

P O S T S C R I P T On that ambition, so to say, which lit its

author's lamp 281





INTRODUCTION


In which, as you will soon find out, Damnation

has its origin

Today, by radio, and also on giant hoardings, a rabbi, an admiral

notorious for his links to Masonry, a trio of cardinals, a trio, too,

of insignificant politicians (bought and paid for by a rich and

corrupt Anglo-Canadian banking corporation), inform us all of

how our country now risks dying of starvation. A rumour, that's

my initial thought as I switch off my radio, a rumour or possibly

a hoax. Propaganda, I murmur anxiously — as though, just by

saying so, I might allay my doubts — typical politicians' propa-

ganda. But public opinion gradually absorbs it as a fact. Indi-

viduals start strutting around with stout clubs. "Food, glorious

food!" is a common cry (occasionally sung to Bart's music), with

ordinary hard-working folk harassing officials, both local and

national, and cursing capitalists and captains of industry. Cops

shrink from going out on night shift. In Macon a mob storms a

municipal building. In Rocadamour ruffians rob a hangar full of

foodstuffs, pillaging tons of tuna fish, milk and cocoa, as also a

vast quantity of corn - all of it, alas, totally unfit for human

consumption. Without fuss or ado, and naturally without any

sort of trial, an indignant crowd hangs 26 solicitors on a hastily

built scaffold in front of Nancy's law courts (this Nancy is a

town, not a woman) and ransacks a local journal, a disgusting

right-wing rag that is siding against it. Up and down this land

of ours looting has brought docks, shops and farms to a virtual

standstill.

Arabs, blacks and, as you might say, non-goyim fall victim to

vii

racist attacks, with pogroms forming in such outlying Parisian

suburbs as Drancy, Livry-Gargan, Saint-Paul, Villacoublay and

Clignancourt. And stray acts of brutality abound: an anonymous

tramp has his brains blown out just for a bit of moronic fun, and

a sacristan is callously spat upon — in public, too - whilst giving

absolution to a CRS man cut in half by a blow from a yataghan

(a Hungarian slicing tool, if you must know).

You'd kill your own kith and kin for a chunk of salami, your

cousin for a crust, your crony for a crouton and just about any-

body at all for a crumb.

On 6 April, from Saturday night until Sunday morning, 25

Molotov cocktails go off around town. Pilots bomb Orly airport.

Paris's most familiar landmarks burn down, and its inhabitants

look on in horror at a still blazing Alhambra, an Institut that is

nothing but a sad, smoking ruin, a Saint-Louis Hospital with all

its windows alight and gaily flaming away. From Montsouris to

Nation not a wall is intact.

Opposition MPs add insult to injury by baiting a now almost

suicidal ruling party, which, though obviously hurt by such an

affront to its dignity, has a fair stab at smoothing things out. But

whilst assassins start liquidating a handful of junior Quai d'Orsay

officials (23, or so it's said), a Dutch diplomat caught filching an

anchovy from a tub of fish is soon put paid to by an impromptu

stoning. And whilst an odiously smug and arrogant viscount in

shocking pink spats (sic) is laid into by Wagram's hoi polloi until

his skin is of a similarly shocking colour (his only fault, it turns

out, was to qualify starvation, to a dying man who had put his

hand out for a coin, as just too, too boring for words), in Raspail

a tall, blond Scandinavian, of actual Viking stock, riding a palo-

mino with blood pouring down its shanks and brandishing aloft

a long bow, starts firing arrows off at any local not to his liking.

A poor, starving, half-mad corporal purloins a bazooka and

mows down his battalion, commandant and all; and, on his

instant promotion to admiral by public acclaim, is just as instandy

slain by an adjutant with aspirations to match his own.

viii

In Paris a young man, a bit of a wag, no doubt nostalgic for

his country's military incursion into Indo-China, sprays napalm

up and down Faubourg Saint-Martin. In Lyon, upwards of a

million lost souls pass away, mostly martyrs to scurvy and typhus.

Acting without instructions, wholly on his own volition, an

idiot of a city official puts all pubs and clubs, poolrooms and

ballrooms, out of bounds - which prompts such a global craving

for alcohol (in fact, for oral gratification of any sort), such a

profound thirst for whisky or gin, vodka or rum, that it's just as

painful as going hungry. To cap it all, this particular May is

proving a scorchingly hot and sunny month: in Passy an omnibus

combusts without warning; and practically 60% of our popu-

lation go down with sunburn.

An Olympic oarsman climbs on to a rooftop and for an instant

attracts a mob of volcanically frothing fanatics, a mob that

abruptly crowns him king. Naturally, it asks him to adopt an

alias fully worthy of his royal rank and vocation. His own wish

is - wait for it - "Attila III"; what, by contrast, his champions

insist on calling him, is "Fantomas XVIII". As that isn't at all to

his fancy, his downfall is as dramatic as was his coronation. As

for Fantomas XXIII (who follows him - don't ask why), think

of a pompous ass sporting a top hat, a gaudy crimson sash, a

walking-stick with a solid gold tip and a palanquin to transport

him to Palais-Royal. With a crowd awaiting his arrival in triumph,

though, our poor monarch-for-a-day has his throat slit by an

assassin, a villain with a cold, malignant grin shouting, "Down

with tyrants! Forward for Ravaillac!" You'll find his tomb (King

Fantomas's, that is) in Paris's catacombs, which a commando

of impious vandals soon took to profaning — without actually

analysing why - and did so for six scandalous days and nights.

Following his burial our nation has had, in turn, a Frankish

king, a hospodar, a maharajah, 3 Romuli, 8 Alarics, 6 Atatiirks,

8 Mata-Haris, a Caius Gracchus, a Fabius Maximus Rullianus, a

Danton, a Saint-Just, a Pompidou, a Johnson (Lyndon B.), a lot

of Adolfs, a trio of Mussolinis, 5 Caroli Magni, a Washington,

ix

an Othon in opposition to a Hapsburg and a Timur Ling, who,

for his own part, got rid of 18 Pasionarias, 20 Maos and 28

Marxists (1 Chicist, 3 Karlists, 6 Grouchists and 18 Harpists).

Although, on sanitary grounds, a soi-disant Marat bans all bath-

taking, this sanctimonious fraud hoards a zinc tub for his own

scrotal ablutions; but, I'm happy to say, a back-stabbing (or ball-

stabbing, as word has it) from a Hitchcockian psychopath in drag

soon puts paid to his hypocrisy.

Following this assassination, a mammoth tank lobs mortars at

a tall municipal building into which Paris's administration has

withdrawn as though for a last, forlorn stand against anarchy.

Upright on its roof, a city councillor starts waving a flag of

pacification, proclaiming to all and sundry that total and uncon-

ditional abdication is at hand and assuring his public of his own

solidarity in any totalitarian call for martial law. Alas, this oppor-

tunistic U-turn is in vain: not caring to put any trust in his hollow

vows, any faith in his word of honour, without bargaining with

him or proposing any kind of ultimatum, his assailants forthwith

launch an all-out assault, razing to its foundations this surviving

bastion of authority.

God, what a world it is! Strung up for saying a word out of

turn! Slain for a sigh! Go on, attack anything you want! A bus,

a train, a taxi-cab, a postal van, a victoria! A baby in a pram, if

such is your fancy! A body in a coffin, if such is your fantasy!

Nobody will stop you. Nobody will know. You can go barging

through a hospital ward, lashing out at this man writhing in

agony or firing point-blank at that man with chronic arthritis and

no right arm. You can crucify as many phony Christs as you

wish. And nobody will mind if you drown an alcoholic in alcohol,

a pharmacist in formol, a motorcyclist in lubricating oil.

Boil infants in cauldrons, burn politicians to a crisp, throw

solicitors to lions, spill Christian blood to its last drop, gas all

shorthand typists, chop all pastrycooks into tiny bits, and circus

clowns, call girls, choirboys, sailors, actors, aristocrats, farm-

hands, football hooligans and Boy Scouts.

You can loot shops or ravish shopgirls, maim or kill. Worst of

all, nothing can stop you now from fabricating and propagating

all sorts of vicious rumours. But stay on your guard, don't trust

anybody — and watch out for your back.

xi

I

ANTON VOWL

1

Which at first calls to mind a probably familiar story

of a drunk man waking up with his brain in a whirl

Incurably insomniac, Anton Vowl turns on a light. According to

his watch it's only 12.20. With a loud and languorous sigh Vowl

sits up, stuffs a pillow at his back, draws his quilt up around his

chin, picks up his whodunit and idly scans a paragraph or two;

but, judging its plot impossibly difficult to follow in his con-

dition, its vocabulary too whimsically multisyllabic for comfort,

throws it away in disgust.

Padding into his bathroom, Vowl dabs at his brow and throat

with a damp cloth.

It's a soft, warm night and his blood is racing through his

body. An indistinct murmur wafts up to his third-floor flat. Far

off, a church clock starts chiming - a chiming as mournful as a

last post, as an air-raid alarm, as an SOS signal from a sinking

ship. And, in his own vicinity, a faint lapping sound informs him

that a small craft is at that instant navigating a narrow canal.

Crawling across his windowsill is a tiny animal, indigo and

saffron in colour, not a cockroach, not a blowfly, but a kind of

wasp, laboriously dragging a sugar crumb along with it. Hoping

to crush it with a casual blow, Vowl lifts up his right hand; but

it abruptly flaps its wings, flying off without giving its assailant

an opportunity to do it any harm.

Hand-tapping a military march on his thighs, Vowl now walks

into his pantry, finds a carton of cold milk, pours it out into a

bowl and drinks it down to its last drop. Mmmm . . . how

scrumptious is milk at midnight. Now for a cosy armchair, a

3

Figaro to look at and a good Havana cigar, notwithstanding that

its rich and smoky flavour is bound to sit oddly in his mouth

with that of milk.

And music, too, radio music, but not this idiotic cha-cha-cha.

(A casual fiddling of knobs.) Ah, a boston, and now a tango,

and a foxtrot, and now a jazzy, harmonically spiky cotillion d la

Stravinsky. Dutronc singing a ballad by Lanzmann, Barbara a

madrigal by Aragon, Stich-Randall an aria from Aida.

Probably nodding off for an instant or two, Vowl abruptly sits

up straight. "And now for a public announc-. . ." Damn that

static! Vowl starts twiddling knobs again until his transistor radio

booms out with clarity. But no particularly significant communi-

cation is forthcoming. In Valparaiso an inauguration of a viaduct

kills 25; in Zurich a Cambodian diplomat "has it on good auth-

ority that Norodom Sihanouk is not planning to visit Richard

Nixon in Washington"; in Paris Pompidou puts forward a non-

partisan proposal for improving conditions in industry, but a

majority of unionists outflank him with a radical (and frankly

Marxist) social contract. Racial conflict in Biafra; rumours of a

putsch in Conakry. A typhoon has hit Nagasaki, and a tornado

(known to aficionados as Amanda) is about to lay Tristan da

Cunha in ruins: its population is waiting for a squadron of

Brazilian aircraft to fly it out in toto.

Finally, at Roland-Garros, in a Davis Cup match against

Darmon, Santana has won 6 - 3 , 1—6, 3—6, 10—8, 8—6.

Vowl turns off his radio, sits down on a rug in his living room,

starts inhaling lustily and trying to do push-ups, but is atrociously

out of form and all too soon, his back curving, his chin jutting

out, curls up in a ball, and, staring raptly at his Aubusson,

succumbs to a fascination with a labyrinth of curious and transi-

tory motifs that swim into his vision and vanish again.

Thus, on occasion, a sort of parabola, not fully confocal in

form and fanning out into a horizontal dash — akin to a capital

G in a mirror.

Or, as achromatic as a swan in a snowstorm, and rising out of

4

a diaphanous mist, an imposing portrait of a king brandishing a

harpoon.

Or, just for an instant, an abstract motif without any form at

all, but for two Kandinskian diagonals, along with a matching

pair, half as long and slighdy awry - its fuzzy contours trying, if

in vain, to draw a cartoon hand, which is to say, a hand with

four digits and no thumb. (If you should find that puzzling, look

hard at Bugs Bunny's hands or Donald Duck's).

Or again, abrupdy surfacing and just as abrupdy fading, a wasp

humming about, with, on its inky black thorax, a triangular rash

of chalky markings.

His mind runs riot. Lost in thought, scrutinising his rug, Vowl

starts imagining 5, 6, 26 distinct visual combinations, absorbing

but also insubstantial, as though an artist's rough drafts but of

what? - that, possibly, which a psychiatrist would call Jungian

slips, an infinity of dark, mythic, anonymous portraits flitting

through his brain, as it burrows for a solitary, global signal that

might satisfy his natural human lust for signification both instant

and lasting, a signal that might commandingly stand out from this

chain of discontinuous links, this miasma of shadowy tracings, all

of which, or so you would think, ought to knit up to form a

kind of paradigmatic configuration, of which such partial motifs

can furnish only anagrams and insipid approximations:

a body crumpling up, a hoodlum, a portrait of an artist as a

young dog;

a bullock, a Bogartian falcon, a brooding blackbird;

an arthritic old man;

a sigh;

or a giant grampus, baiting Jonah, trapping Cain, haunting

Ahab: all avatars of that vital quiddity which no ocular straining

will pull into focus, all ambiguous substitutions for a Grail of

wisdom and authority which is now lost - now and, alas, for

always - but which, lost as it is, our protagonist will not

abandon.

5

Staring at his rug in this way starts grating on Vowl, who, a

victim of optical illusions, of sly tricks that his imagination is

playing on him, starts to fancy that a focal point is at long last

within his grasp, though just as it's about to solidify it sinks again

into a void.

But Vowl insists, stubbornly hangs in, without trying to sur-

mount his fascination, without struggling to kick his habit. It's

almost as though, intrinsic to his rug, to its vitals, in a way, is a

solitary strand looping around a vanishing point - Alpha, you

might call it - as though, acting as a mirror to all unity and

harmony, such a point might grant him a synoptic vision of

cosmic infinity, a protological point of origin gradually maturing

into a global panorama, an abysmal chasm discharging X-rays

(which is to say, not a radiographical "X" but that, in maths,

indicating an unknown quantity), a virgin tract of curving

coasdands and circuitous contours which Vowl cannot stop

tracing, as grimly and untiringly as a convict pacing back and

forth along his prison wall, pacing, pacing, pacing, without any

notion of scaling it. . .

For four days and nights Vowl works hard at his oblong rug,

squatting and crouching on it, languishing and lying in ambush,

straining at his imagination so as to catch sight of its missing

strand, so as to construct an occult fiction around it, wilting,

cracking up, pursuing an illusion of instant salvation in which it

would all unfold in front of him.

It starts suffocating him. Not a hint nor an inkling drifts his

way, nor again that kind of involuntary illumination that may on

occasion turn out fruitful, but myriad combinations floating in

and out of his brain, now amorphous, now polymorphous, now

just within his grasp, now as far from it as it was within it,

now a common, ordinary, almost banal thing, now dark, sly and

cryptic, a faint and riddling murmur, an oracular form of mumbo

jumbo. In a word, an imbroglio.



* * *

6

Notwithstanding a cup of hot cocoa and a cordial of allobarbital,

opium or laudanum, a moist cloth on his brow and a slow

countdown from 100 to 1, Vowl simply can't stop tossing and

turning on his pillow.

Finally, oblivion - but only for a blissful half-hour or so. For,

just as a church clock is chiming half-past two, Vowl sits up again

with a start, his body twitching uncontrollably. Soon, too, his

vision starts haunting him again, it brutally assails him, it swims

into but also, sad to say, out of focus. For a capricious, all too

capricious, instant light dawns on him.

At that point Vowl would hastily hunch down on his rug,

but only to confront a conundrum: nothing, nothing at all, but

irritation at an opportunity knocking so loudly and so vainly,

nothing but frustration at a truth so dormant and frail that, on

his approach, it sinks away into thin air.

So, now as vigilant as a man who has had an invigorating nap,

abandoning his pillow, pacing up and down on his living-room

floor, drinking, staring out of his window, taking down a book,

switching his radio on and off, putting on his suit and coat, Vowl

would go out, would stay out all night, in a bar, or at his club,

or, climbing into his car (although driving was hardly his strong

point), would motor off around Paris's suburbs on a whim,

without having any particular goal in mind: to Chantilly or

Aulnay-sous-Bois, Limours or Rancy, Dourdon or Orly, and as

far as Saint-Malo - but to no avail.

Half out of his wits with insomnia, Vowl is willing to try almost

anything that might assist him in dozing off - a pair of pyjamas

with bright polka dots, a nightshirt, a body stocking, a warm

shawl, a kimono, a cotton sari from a cousin in India, or simply

curling up in his birthday suit, arranging his quilt this way and

that, switching to a cot, to a crib, a foldaway, a divan, a sofa and

a hammock, lying on his back, on his stomach, or with arms

akimbo, casting off his quilt or placing a thick, hairy tartan rug

on top of it, borrowing a plank of nails from a fakir or practising

7

a yoga position taught him by a guru (and which consists of

forcing an arm hard against your skull whilst taking hold of your

foot with your hand) and finally paying for a room in lodgings

- but without anything satisfactory to show for it.

It's all in vain. His subconscious vision starts buzzing around

him again, buzzing around and within him, choking and suffocat-

ing him.

Sympathising with his unusual condition, a good Samaritan living

two doors away opts to accompany him to a local hospital for a

consultation. A young GP jots down his particulars and insists on

his submitting to palpations, auscultations and X-rays, a diagnosis

with which Vowl is happy to comply. "Is your condition painful?"

this young GP asks him. "Sort of," Vowl blandly informs him. And

what is its principal symptom? Chronic insomnia. What about

taking a syrup last thing at night? Or a cordial? "I did," says Vowl,

"but it had no impact." Conjunctivitis? No. A dry throat?

Occasionally. An aching brow? And how! A humming sound in

his auditory ducts? "No, but all last night, an odd kind of wasp

was buzzing around my room." A wasp - or possibly an imaginary

wasp? "Isn't it your job to find out," asks Vowl laconically.

At which point Vowl pays a visit to an otolaryngologist, Dr.

Cochin, a jovial sort of chap, balding, with long auburn mutton-

chops, bifocals dangling on a chain across his plump stomach, a

salmon pink cravat with black polka dots, and, in his right hand,

a cigar stinking of alcohol. Cochin asks him to cough and say

"Ahhhh", puts a tiny circular mirror into his mouth, draws a

blob of wax out of his auditory organs (as doctors say), starts

poking at his tympanum and massaging his larynx, his naso-

pharynx, his right sinus and his nasal partition. It's a good,

thoroughgoing job and it's a pity that Cochin can't stop irritat-

ingly whisding throughout.

"Ouch!" moans Anton. "That hurts. . ."

"Shhh," murmurs his doctor soothingly. "Now what do you

say to our trotting downstairs for an itsy-bitsy X-ray?"

8

Laying Vowl flat on his back along a cold, shiny, clinical-

looking couch, pushing a pair of buttons, flicking a switch down

and turning off a lamp so that it's pitch dark, Cochin X-rays him

and lights up his laboratory again. Vowl instandy shifts back to

a sitting position.

"No, don't sit up!" says Cochin. "I'm not through with you,

you know. I ought to look for hints of auto-intoxication."

Plugging in a circuit, Cochin brings out what a layman would

call a small platinum pick, akin to nothing so much as a humdrum

Biro, puts it against Vowl's skull and consults, on a print-out,

an X and Y graph, its rhythmic rising and falling charting his

blood circulation.

"It's too high, much too high," says Cochin at last, tapping

his apparatus, noisily sucking on his cigar and rolling it around his

mouth. "It shows a constriction of your frontal sinus. A surgical

incision is our only solution."

"An incision!"

"'Fraid so, old boy. If not, don't you know, you'll finish up

with a bad croup."

Although all of this is said so flippandy that Vowl starts to

think Cochin is joking, such gallows humour in a doctor cannot

fail to disturb him. Bringing his shirt-tail up to his lips and spit-

ting blood on to it, our invalid snorts with disgust, "Fuck you,

you . . . you quack! I ought to go to an ophthalmologist!"

"Now now," murmurs Cochin in a conciliatory mood. "With

an immuno-transfusion or two I'll know what prognosis to adopt.

But first things first - I must obtain an analysis."

Cochin rings for his assistant, who turns up clad in a crimson

smock.

"Rastignac, go to Foch, Saint-Louis or Broca and bring back

an anti-conglutinant vaccination. And I want it in my laboratory

by noon!"

Now Cochin starts dictating his diagnosis to a shorthand

typist.

"Anton Vowl. Consultation of 8 April: a common cold, an

9

auto-intoxication of his naso-pharynx, which could possibly put

his olfactory circuit out of action, and a constriction of his frontal

sinus with a hint of mucal inflammation right up to his sublingual

barbs. As any inoculation of his larynx would bring about a

croup, my proposal is an ablation of his sinus in such a way as

to avoid damaging his vocal chords."

Vowl, according to Cochin, shouldn't worry too much, for if

ablation of a sinus is still a ticklish proposition, it's had a long

history dating as far back as Louis XVIII. It is, in short,

an incision any physician worth his salt can carry out. Within

10 days, should Vowl hold firm, his throat won't hurt him

at all.

So Vowl stays in hospital. His ward contains 26 cots, most of

its occupants striking him as, frankly, mortuary carrion. To calm

him down Cochin drugs him with such soporifics as Largactyl,

Atarax and Procalmadiol. At 8 a.m. an important consultant starts

doing his round, with a cohort of aspiring young doctors

accompanying him, drinking in his words of wisdom, dutifully

chuckling at his bons mots. This lofty individual would accost a

visibly dying man and, airily tapping him on his arm, solicit from

him a lugubrious smirk; would comfort anybody incurably ill

with an amusing or a consoling word; would charm a sick child

with a lollipop and his fond mama with a toothy grin; and,

confronting a handful of almost moribund invalids, would pro-

pound an instant diagnosis: malaria, Parkinson's, bronchitis, a

malignant tumour, a postnatal coma, syphilis, convulsions, palpi-

tations and a torticollis.

Within two days or so Vowl, laid out flat, swallows a drug, a

kind of liquid chloroform, that knocks him unconscious. Cochin

slowly and cautiously installs a sharp nib up his right nostril. This

incision in his olfactory tract producing a naso-dilation, Cochin

profits from it by quickly scarifying Vowl's partition with a

surgical pin, scraping it with a burin and closing it up with a

tool thought up not long ago by a brilliant Scotsman. Now our

10

otolaryngologist taps his sinus, cuts out a malign fungus and

finally burns off his wound.

"Good," - this said to his assistant, who is almost numb with

fright - "I think our oxydisation is going to work. Anyway, I

can't find any sign of inflammation."

Cochin briskly starts swabbing Vowl's wound, stitching it up

with catgut and bandaging it. For 24 hours a slight risk subsists

of trauma or shock; but, promisingly, his scar knits up without

complication.

Vowl has to stay in hospital for six days, until, at last, a grinning

Cochin allows him to go. I might add, though, that his insomnia

is still as chronically bad, if not now so agonisingly painful, as it

always was.

11

1

In which luck, God's alias and alibi, plays a callous

trick on a suitor cast away on an island

Laid out languorously, all day long, on a couch or on a sofa, or

on occasion rocking to and fro in his rocking chair, stubbornly

trying to copy out on an old visiting-card that indistinct motif

that had sprung at him from his rug, as frail as an infant but not

now, thanks to Cochin's surgical skills, in all that much physical

pain, our protagonist starts hallucinating, blowing his mind.

As though in a slow-motion film, Vowl is walking down a corri-

dor, its two high walls dwarfing him. To his right is a mahogany

stand on which sit 26 books - on which, I should say, 26 books

normally ought to sit, but, as always, a book is missing, a book

with an inscription, "5", on its flap. Nothing about this stand,

though, looks at all abnormal or out of proportion, no hint of a

missing publication, no filing card or "ghost", as librarians

quaintly call it, no conspicuous gap or blank. And, disturbingly,

it's as though nobody knows of such an omission: you had to

work your way through it all from start to finish, continually

subtracting (with 25 book-flaps carrying inscriptions from "1"

to "26", which is to say, 26 — 25 = 1) to find out that any

book was missing; it was only by following a long and arduous

calculation that you'd know it was "5".

Vowl is avid to grasp a book, any book at all, in his hand, to

study its small print (with a possibility of chancing across an

important fact, a crucial tip) but in vain; his groping hand is,

alas, too far away for any physical contact. But what (his mind

12

runs on), what would such a book contain? Possibly a colossal,

a cosmic dictionary? A Koran, a Talmud or a Torah? A magnum

opus, a Black Book of black magic, cryptograms and occult

mumbo jumbo . . .

A unit is lacking. An omission, a blank, a void that nobody but

him knows about, thinks about, that, flagrantly, nobody wants to

know or think about. A missing link.

Now, still hallucinating, Vowl scans his Figaro and finds it full

of startling information, both significant and trivial:

BANNING OF CP

NOT A C O M M U N I S T IN P A R I S !

*

If you wish to wrap anything up — no ribbon, no strings

BUY S C O T C H !

F I N A N C I A L SCANDAL I M P L I C A T I N G

A R I N G OF S P I V S

A vision now assails him: of a filthy sandwich-man, practically a

tramp, his clothing in rags, handing out tracts with a myopic and

haggard air, mumbling to nobody in particular and buttonholing

any unlucky individual crossing his path with a rambling story

of how consumption of fruit will cut down lust - a typical crank,

in short, a madman, a pitiful laughing-stock. An urchin, warming

to his cry of "A million, a billion birds will vanish from our sky!",

pins a baby chick on to his mackintosh.

"Oh, how idiotic," murmurs Vowl. But just as idiotic, now, is

his vision of a man going into a bar:

MAN, sitting down and barking (with gruff and, as you might

say, military incivility): Barman!

13

B A R M A N (who knows a thing or two): Morning, mon

Commandant.

C O M M A N D A N T (calming down now that, although in mufti, his

rank is plain to this barman): Ah, good morning to you, my boy,

good morning!

BARMAN (who has a slight but distinct hint of Oirishry about

him): And what, pray, can I do for you, sir? Your wish is my

command.

C O M M A N D A N T (licking his lips): You know what I fancy most

of all - a port-flip.

B A R M A N (frowning)-. What? A port-flip!

C O M M A N D A N T (vigorously nodding): That's right, a port-flip!

Any port-flip in a storm, what? Ha ha ha!

B A R M A N (as though in pain): I . . . don't . . . think . . . any

. .. in .. . stock . . .

COMMANDANT^ jumping up off his stool): What, no port-flips!

But only last month I had (laboriously counting out) 1, 2, no,

3 port-flips in this bar!

B A R M A N (almost inaudibly): But now . . . now . . . you

can't. . .

C O M M A N D A N T (furiously pointing in front of him): Now look,

that's port, isn't it?

B A R M A N (in agony): Uh huh . . . but. . .

C O M M A N D A N T (livid): So? So? And (pointing again) that's

an. . .

B A R M A N (abruptly dying): Aaaaaaah! Shhhhhhh . . . R.I.P.

C O M M A N D A N T (about to go but first noticing his body): What

a storm in a port-flip!

Which is what you might call adding insult to injury.

Vowl isn't always in such good humour, though (in so far as this

vision of his can claim much humour at all), occasionally taking

fright, starting up in panic, his blood curdling. For what if a

crouching Sphinx is about to attack him?

1 4

Day in, day out, and month in, month out, his hallucination

would go on distilling its poison - akin to an addiction, to opium

having him in its thrall, to a suit of armour imprisoning him.

At night, his spotting an ant or a cockroach scrambling on top

of his window crossbar only to fall back down again would,

without his knowing why, instil within him a profound dis-

comfort, as though so tiny an animal could function as a symbol

of his own bad luck.

At night, too, just as dawn is rising, his habitual fantasy, d la

Kafka, is of tossing and turning on his hot, damp pillow, without

anything at all to hold on to, as though caught in a sort of iron

cuirass and growing a carrion crow's claws, claws that would start

writhing about to no avail. Nobody would rush to assist him.

Not a sound would disturb his long nocturnal vigil - but, at

most, for a monotonous drip-drip-drip from a tap running in his

bathroom. For who would know of his plight? Who would find

a solution to it, now and for always? Did any dictionary contain

a word that, only by pronouncing it, would calm his morbid

condition? Slowly asphyxiating, Vowl gasps for air. His lungs

burn. His throat hurts as much as though sawn in half. Trying

to call for aid, his lips, crinkly from a moribund grin that also

starts wrinkling his brow, form only a dry, mournful cough. As

panicky as a pig in an abattoir, sobbing, panting and suffocating,

shaking, rattling and rolling about, his pupils dilating, a crippling

load cracking his ribs, a flow of black blood oozing continuously

from his tympanic cavity, a monstrous tumour bulging out of

his right arm, from which a catarrhal pus would occasionally

squirt, Vowl is visibly shrinking, losing from four to six pounds

a day. His hand is now nothing but a stump. His physiognomy,

ruddy, jowly, puffy and thick of lip, sways to and fro atop his

tall, scrawny stalk of a throat. And as always, torturing him,

throttling him, that clammy whiplash, as of a boa constrictor, as

of a python, as of a python out of Monty Python, would coil and

curl and crush his torso with a flick of its tail. His discs would

15

slip and his ribs would snap — with nary a word, nary a cry,

issuing from his lips.

I'm dying, thinks Vowl. And with nobody to pour balm onto

my wounds, nobody to accompany my last hours, no sacristan

to grant absolution for my Original Sin, for nobody at all has an

inkling of my plight.

Now Vowl looks upwards and sights a carrion crow watchfully

circling him. In his room, all around him, sits a pack of animals

- plump black rats, stoats, rabbits, frogs and toads, a solitary

cockroach - as though on guard, lying in wait to ambush his

stiff carcass, anticipating a Gargantuan picnic. A falcon swoops

down on him. A jackal burrows out of Saharan sands to attack

him.

On occasion Vowl finds his imaginings alarming, on occasion

almost amusing: to finish up as a jackal's lunch, a snack for a rat

or nourishing bait for a falcon (a notion that brings to his mind

a book by Malcolm Lowry) has, as it had for Amphitryon, no

slight attraction for him.

But it's his chronic attraction to anything sickly that is of

utmost fascination to him. It's as though, for him, this is an

unambiguous sign confronting him with, and initiating him into:

Not annihilation (though annihilation is still at hand), not

damnation (though damnation is still at hand), but first of all

omission: a "no", a non-admission, a missing link.

Things may look normal and natural and logical, but a word

is but a faux-naif talisman, a structurally unsound platform from

which to sound off, as a world of total and horrifying chaos will

soon start to show through its sonorous inanity. Things may

look normal, things will go on looking normal, but in a day or

two, in 7 days, or 31, or 365, all such things will rot. A gap will

yawn, achingly, day by day, it will turn into a colossal pit, an

abyss without foundation, a gradual invasion of words by

margins, blank and insignificant, so that all of us, to a man, will

find nothing to say.

Without knowing why such an association is popping into his

16

mind at just this instant, Vowl now thinks of a book that was

bought by him in his youth, a book brought out by Gallimard

in its imprint La Croix du Sud, a work of fiction by Isidro Parodi -

or should I say Honorio Bustos Domaicq (if, to his compatriots,

known simply as Bioy) - an account of an amazing, astonishing

and also alarming calamity in which an outcast, a runaway pariah,

is caught up.

Call him Ishmail, too. Having had to sustain many, almost

inhuman hardships, this Ishmail drops anchor on an island that

is, at first sight, totally without inhabitants. Initially, things go

badly, with his almost dying of cold and starvation, burrowing

into a sand pit, shaking, suffocating, coming down with malaria,

curling up both day and night in a tight ball, simply waiting to

pass away.

But six days go past, and his unusually robust constitution

allows him finally to sit up and look around him. Our protagonist

is now disturbingly skinny but can still, if with difficulty, climb

out of his pit — a pit that was almost his tomb. So Ishmail

starts living again by first luxuriandy slaking his thirst; now

swallows an acorn but instandy spits it out in disgust; and soon

works out which fruits and mushrooms won't do him any harm.

A particular fruit (akin to an apricot) brings him out in a rash of

itchy, purplish spots, but bananas, avocados, nuts and kiwi fruit

abound.

At dusk, using a sharp rock, Ishmail cuts a notch on a stick

(to tick off his first night as a castaway); and, with a total of 20

such cuts, constructs a hut, a sort of impromptu shack, with a

door, four walls, and flooring and roofing built out of mud.

With no matchsticks at hand, though, his food is invariably raw.

Constant, too, is his panic that an animal might attack his camp;

but, as it turns out (such, anyway, is his supposition), no lynx

or puma, no jaguar, cougar or bison, stalks his island. At most,

comfortably far off, and only at sundown, a solitary orang-utan

prowling around but not caring (or daring?) to approach him.

17

And if it did, Ishmail had cut a stout club out of a mahogany

branch that would firmly put paid to any assailant.

This lasts a month. At which point, his physical condition

improving on an almost daily basis, our Robinson Ishmail (if I

may so call him) starts making a tour of his unknown Tristan da

Cunha, taking a full day to walk around it, his club in his hand,

and by nightfall pitching camp on top of a hill that would allow

him a panoramic command of his domain.

At dawn, cupping his hand to his brow and gazing about him,

Ishmail looks northwards and sights a kind of canal swirling and

foaming into marshland, and also, to his horror, not too far from

his hut, a row of mounds (akin to that sort known as tumuli), six

in all; cautiously slinks down towards this curious construction

(possibly a sort of windpiping?); and hazards an assumption (and

rightly so) that it's by a tidal flow that it functions.

Now, abrupdy, as it dawns on him what it is and of what it

consists, Ishmail starts noticing signs of habitation - a housing

compound, a radio installation, an aquarium.

But it all looks forlorn and vacant, its fountain as dry as a

structuralist monograph (and playing host to a trio of fat and

languorous armadillos), its pool mouldy with fungus.

As for its housing compound, it was built, circa 1930, in a

crypto-rococo fashion imitating, variously, a pink-icing casino in

Monaco, a bungalow on a Malayan plantation, a colonialist villa,

an ultra-chic condominium in Miami and Tara from GWTW.

Passing through a tall swing-door with slats and a mosquito

guard, you would walk along a corridor, about four yards high

and six yards long, taking you into a largish sitting room: on its

floor is a vast Turkish rug and, all around, divans, sofas, arm-

chairs, cushions and mirrors. A spiral stair winds up to a loggia.

From its roof, built out of a wood that, though light in colour,

is actually rock-hard (most probably sumac or sandalwood), a

thin aluminium cord, from which hangs a shiny brass ring of

outstanding craftsmanship, supports a colourful lamp no doubt

brought back from a trip to Japan and which casts a dim but

18

oddly milky light. Finally, via four bow windows inlaid with

gold, you could go out on to a balcony surmounting a fabulous

natural vista.

With a caution born of suspicion, Ishmail now pays this com-

pound a visit from top to bottom, from ground floor to loggia,

tapping its roof, its walls and its wainscoting, going through

its cupboards, not missing any nook or cranny and noting, in

particular, in a downstairs stock room, a labyrinthian circuit

which, linking up an oscillograph, a prismatic mirror, a two-way

radio, a hi-fi (with an apparatus to amplify its sound), a multi-

track rack and a strobo-cycloidal rotator, probably has a global

function unknown to him.

Not daring to pass a night in such unpromising surroundings,

Ishmail simply "borrows" as many tools as his arms can carry, as

also a big brass cauldron, a chopping board, a winnowing fan, a

matchbox or two and a hip flask brimming with whisky, and

quickly slips off to a clump of dark woodland not too far away,

in which stands a run-down shack; starts doing it up, allowing

not a day to go by without improving it; hunts, kills and cooks

rabbits; and, on his most fruitful raid, actually corrals an agouti

with his lasso, making bacon and ham, dripping and black pud-

ding, out of its carcass.

Days and days of this. Days of monsoons, of a curdling sky,

of ominous clouds amassing on its horizon, of a high, cold, gusty

wind blowing up all about him, of tidal troughs and billows,

of a foam-capp'd flood rushing inland, plashing and splashing,

washing and sploshing, anything in its path. Days of rain, rain,

rain.

Not long into his third month Ishmail sights a yacht putting

into port and dropping anchor off his island. Six individuals now

climb up to its casino, from which soon float out sounds of a

jazz band playing a foxtrot, a 30s "standard" that's obviously still

popular. At which point nothing again is as it was.

Though, initially, his instinct is to turn tail, to withdraw into his

19

shack, Ishmail cannot but find this situation intriguing and crawls

forward on all fours. What is going on? In a malodorous pool

choking with fungus, and around a shabby, unglamorous casino,

his visitors start swimming and dancing: a trio of guys, a match-

ing trio of dolls, plus a sort of footman adroidy mincing back

and forth with a tray of snacks, drinks and cigars. A tall, smiling,

muscular man - in his mid-20s at most - is particularly conspicu-

ous in a suit with a Mao collar and without any buttons down

its front, a Cardin fashion of long, long ago. His companion, a

man in his 30s with a tuft of bushy black hair on his chin, sporting

a stylish morning suit, sips from a glass of whisky, adds a dash

of soda and lazily hands it to a young woman - obviously his

girl - snoozing in a hammock.

"This is for you, Faustina. May I kiss you for it?"

"Why, thank you," says Faustina, half in a laugh, half in a huff.

"Ah, Faustina, what bliss I'd know if only . . . if only I could

. . . oh, you know what I'm trying to say . . ."

"Now now, I said no, no and no again. Why can't you and I

stay just good chums?" adds Faustina, fondling his hand for an

instant.

What a fascinating woman! thinks Ishmail, who now starts to

follow Faustina around, though naturally, as a runaway convict,

still afraid for his own skin. For who's to say that this group of

upstarts isn't harbouring a cop or a grass? What am I but an

oudaw, worth a king's ransom to any informant? As an outcast

from my own country, having had to fly from a tyrant as corrupt

as Caligula, as bad as any Borgia, how can I know that this

insignificant-looking yacht isn't on a kidnapping mission? Alas,

I don't know and I don't want to know; all I know is that, loving

this woman as I do, I want to know Faustina - Biblically.

Caring not for company, Faustina strolls about this way and

that, hips swinging lighdy to and fro. Finally Ishmail accosts his

inamorata, who is studying a book, Virginia Woolf's Orlando,

as it turns out.

"Miss, oh Miss, I'm sorry, awfully sorry, I . . . I had to talk to

2 0

you. It's just my hard luck if anybody spots us . . . I'm willing

to risk it. . ."

Alas! ignoring all his sighs and supplications, Faustina looks

straight through him.

At which point Ishmail falls victim to hallucinations, possibly from

consuming a poisonous black mushroom or having had too much

to drink; or, why not, from having shrunk so much as to vanish

wholly from sight, so that Faustina is nothing but a vision, a vision

passing right through his body; or, if not, from losing his mind,

going crazy, moonstruck, stark, staring mad, as though still stag-

nating in his filthy marshland and simply conjuring this vision out

of a bout of paranoia - casino, yacht, Faustina and all.

All right - but, if so, why, as though caught up in a warp in

chronology, should Ishmail again catch sight of a party uncannily

similar in both word and act to that of his first visit: dancing by

moonlight, Louis Armstrong playing a foxtrot. . . ?

All right — but, if so, worst of all (for Ishmail's fiction now

actually starts to nourish his own hallucinations, it's now that a

comparison of his own situation with that of Bioy's book, a

comparison that's possibly illusory and anyway naggingly hard to

pin down, will occur to critics), why, occasionally, whilst walking

along a corridor, should Ishmail abruptly find a door ajar in front

of him and a footman coming out with a tray in his hand and

why should this footman look glassily past him?

As though by instinct, Ishmail jumps out of his way, watching

him put a book, say, on top of a trunk and approaching it in his

turn to find out what's in it. But why is it so inhumanly hard

and smooth to his touch? No Titan, no Goliath, could lift up

such a book.

It's as though a cunning troll or hobgoblin has sought to statufy

all that is solid within and around this casino, to spray it with

poison gas or coat it with varnish, incrusting surfacings and

suffusing grains, controlling atoms and ions, so that nothing

stays for long as it was.

2 1

Things may look normal-, if Ishmail looks at a thing or at an

individual, it logically follows that that thing or individual is

actually in front of him; a sound (a laugh, a cry, a jazzy riff) is

just as loud in this world as in any normal world, an odour (of

a blossom, of a woman's hair) just as fragrant to his nostrils. Now

Faustina is lounging on a sofa among an array of silk cushions as

soft: and light and airy as balloons. Now his darling stands up

and walks out, abandoning on a cushion (as a gift to him?) a

bulky gold ring with a multi-carat diamond stud. Ishmail jumps

up, taking this ring as a sign, a sign that Faustina is his, but is

too afraid of that odious individual with his morning suit and

his glass of whisky - a husband? a suitor? just a companion? -

to admit it (for nobody could claim immunity from a Law making

of Ishmail an outcast, a pariah: nobody could touch him or stop

him from strolling back and forth; but nor was any human con-

scious of him at all).

Making contact with Faustina's cushion or ring for only an

instant, though, a numb, downcast, haggard Ishmail withdraws

his hand. What, again, occurs is that this cushion, say - a thing

normally as soft and downy as a baby's bottom - is, to his touch,

now a hard, cold, compact block, as rock-hard as a diamond, as

though part of a shadowy twin world consubstantial with

Ishmail's own but caught through a glass darkly, a living mirror

of our own world and just as cold, shiny and insular as a mirror.

A world, too, in which all that is human, or inhuman, maintains

a capacity for motion and action: thus Faustina can unlock a door

or charmingly languish on a sofa; thus that boorish individual

(as Ishmail cannot stop thinking of him) has no difficulty at all

pouring out a whisky-and-soda; nor, thus, has a jazz band any

difficulty striking up a foxtrot, a yacht docking, a woman drop-

ping a gold ring, a footman sashaying along a corridor holding a

tray. For anybody, though, not part of it all (which was obviously

Ishmail's plight), that world was nothing but a smooth, cyclical

continuum, without a fold in it, without any form of articulation,

as compact as stucco or staff, as putty or portland; an imbrication

2 2

of nights without adjoining days, a total lapidification, a flat,

hard, constant, monotonous uniformity in which all things, big

or small, smooth or lumpish, living or not, form a solitary, global

unit.

Though trying hard, straining with all his might, Ishmail can-

not bunch up a small and dainty silk cushion, for it's a cushion

of rock-solid silk; nor, though bringing his foot down hard on

it, disturb a tuft of hair on a Turkish rug; nor, with his hand,

turn a light-switch on and off. No, poor Ishmail is now an outcast

from two worlds.

Ishmail (as it slowly, far too slowly, dawns on him) is living in

a film, a film that was shot, wholly without his companions'

authorisation or approval, by M., Faustina's suitor, on a short

tour of his (Ishmail's) island in or about 1930.

Whilst a fatal malady attacks "his" island's baobabs, whilst a

mould crawling with tiny, malignant bugs starts to run riot in

its swimming pool, whilst its villa is rapidly going to wrack and

ruin, a haphazard sprinkling of raindrops all too soon turns into

a noisy downpour, a tropical monsoon, so that a concomitant

tidal flow, rising and falling, flooding that coastal construction

that Ishmail first saw from on top of a hill, activating its circuitry

(circuitry which had initially struck him as totally baffling) and

causing its dynamo to hum into motion, brings about a curious

and oddly tragic situation in which, word for word, act for act,

so many instants (instants long past but also immortal) visibly

start to shrink into what you might call ions of chronology, just

as, with an apparatus built from vitalium, Martial Cantaral would

allow any ghosdy carcass to act out, in a vast frigidarium, and

again and again right up to doomsday, a crucial instant from its

past.

Things look normal, but looks can play tricks on you. Things

at first look normal, till, abrupdy, abnormality, horrifying in its

inhumanity, swallows you up and spits you out.



* * *

2 3

Anton Vowl's ambition is to find out just what brand of affinity

links him with Bio/s book: on his rug, constantly assailing his

imagination, is his intuition of a taboo, his vision of a cryptic

sort of witchcraft, of a void, a thing unsaid: a vision, or loss of

vision, a mission or an omission, both all-knowing and knowing

nothing at all. Things may look normal, but. . .

But what?

Vowl simply cannot work it out.

2 4

1

Concluding with an immoral papacy's abolition and

its claimant's contrition

Days pass. Trying to work this thing out to his own satisfaction,

Vowl starts writing a diary, captioning it with just two words:

A V O I D

and continuing:

A void. Void of whom? Of what?

A curious motif runs (or ran or has run or might run)

through my Aubusson, but it isn't only a motif, it's also a

fount of wisdom and authority.

An imago as snug as a bug in my rug.

What, on occasion, it brings to mind is a painting by

Arcimboldo, a portrait of its own artist, possibly an

astonishing portrait of a haggard Dorian Gray, of a bilious

albino: an Arcimboldian jigsaw, not of shrimps and

crayfish, not of a cornucopia offruit, nor of snaky, tortuous

pistils twisting upwards to mimic a human brow or chin

or nostril, but of a swarming mass of sinuous bacilli of so

subtly skilful a combination that you know straightaway

that such a portrait had a body at its origin, without its

affording you at any instant a solitary distinguishing mark,

so obvious is it that it was its artist's ambition to fashion a

work which, by masking and unmasking, closing and

disclosing, turn and turn about, or mayhap in unison, would

hatch a plot but totally avoid giving it away.

2 5

It's hard, initially, to spot any modification at all. Tou

think at first that it's your own paranoia that's causing you

to find anomaly, abnormality and ambiguity all around

you. Abruptly, though, you know, or think you know, that

not too far off is ... a thing, an incarnation that distracts

you, acts upon you and numbs you. Things rot around

you. Tou panic, you sink into an unnatural sloth; you start

losing your mind. A sharp - though not, alas, so short -

shock chills you to your marrow. If this horror is only a

hallucination, it's a hallucination that you can't simply

throw off.

If only you had a word, a noun. If only you could shout

out: Aha, at last, now I know what it was that I found

so disturbing! If only you could jump for joy, jump up and

down, find a way out of this linguistic labyrinth, this

anagram of signification, this sixty-four-thousand-dollar

conundrum. But you simply can't fall back on any such

option: you must stubbornly go on, pursuing your vision to

its logical conclusion.

If only, oh if only you could pin down its point of origin,

that's all you ask. But it's all such a fog, it's all so

distant. . .

This diary lasts about six months. Day by day, as twilight falls,

Vowl jots down, in a typically finicky fashion, a host of insignifi-

cant notations: drank up all my provision of liquor, bought an

LP for my cousin Julot for passing his bac with flying colours,

took my Moroccan kaftan to a local laundry, said hullo to a man

living down my road notwithstanding that Azor, his pug-dog,

has a habit of shitting on my doormat, and so on; notations, too,

on his books, on his chums, on a puzzling word or an intriguing

fact (a QC at court who couldn't finish his oration; a hooligan

firing blank shots at nobody in particular; a compositor at a

printing plant wilfully vandalising his own typographic

apparatus . . . ).

2 6

Now and again, automatically clicking a Bic with his thumb,

Vowl would pass on to his own autobiography, would submit

his own past to psychological analysis, touching, most notably,

on his hallucination and Ishmail's island.

A particular day dawns on which it's a synopsis of a book, a

wholly imaginary book, that finds its way into his diary:

In a far country is found a small boy, Aignan, just two days

away from his fifth birthday and living in an old mansion that's

collapsing about him. This small boy has a nanny who, without

any warning at all, ups and says to him, "As a child, Aignan, you

had 25 cousins. Ah, what tranquil days - days without wars or

riots! But, abruptly, your cousins would start to vanish - to this

day nobody knows why. And, today, it's your turn to go away,

to withdraw from our sight, for, if you don't, it is, as Wordsworth

might put it — and you know, my darling," adds this palindromic

matron, "almost all of Wordsworth is worth words of almost

all - it is, I say, intimations of mortality for all of us."

So Aignan slinks away out of town. And in classic Bildungs-

roman fashion his story starts off with a short moral fabliau:

barring his path, a Sphinx accosts him.

"Aha," says this fantastic (and not so dumb) animal, lustily

licking its lips, "what a scrumptious sandwich for my lunch! How

long ago it is I last saw such a plump and juicy human child in

my vicinity!"

"Whoa, Sphinx, whoa! Just hold on a mo!" says Aignan, who

knows his Lacan backwards. "You must first of all quiz my wits.

Your famous conundrum, you know."

"My conundrum?" says his antagonist, caught short by this

unusual invitation. "What for? You can't throw any light on its

solution. Nobody can. So stop fooling about."

But, just a tad suspicious, it adds, "Or possibly you think you

can?"

"Who knows?" says Aignan with a roguish grin.

"I must say you sound a bit of a show-off, you brattish boy,

you, but I won't hold that against you. I'm willing to play fair,

2 7

I don't mind allowing your ambition to act as a cushion to your

annihilation."

So saying, with harp in paw, it hums aloud for an instant and,

making an airy harp-string glissando, starts to sing.

Which animal do you know

That has a body as curving as a bow

And draws back inwards as straight as an arrow?

"Moi! Moi!" Aignan (no doubt a fan of Miss Piggy) shouts back

at it.

A frown furrows its horridly bulging brow.

"You think so?"

"Why, naturally," says Aignan.

"I fancy you ought to know," says his inquisitor mournfully.

For an instant nobody says a word. A cold north wind cuts a

blast through a cotton-cloud sky.

"I always said a kid would bring about my downfall," sighs a

Sphinx so dolorous it looks almost as though it's about to burst

into sobs.

"Now, now, Sphinx, no hamming it up, s'il vous plait" says

Aignan gruffly and with a faint hint of compassion for his victim

— adding, though, "You must admit, had I got it wrong, you'd

instandy claim what's owing you. I got it right, I won; and so,

by law, it's curtains for you." And, raising an intimidating hand

in front of him, adds, "So - what about taking a running jump

off that cliff?"

"Oh no," it murmurs softly, "not that, oh God, not that. . . "

"St, sir Aignan roars back, without knowing why an Italian

locution should pop into his brain at such a point of crisis and

climax.

Picking up a thick, knobby stick, Aignan knocks it down - so

hard, in fact, that it falls unconscious, spiralling downward out

of control, spinning round and round in mid-air, down, down,

down, into a profound abyss, into an aching Boschian void. A

blood-curdling wail, a wail partaking of both a lion's roar and a

2 8

cat's purr, of both a hawk's inhuman squawk and a hauntingly

human, all too human, cry of pain, throbs on and on all around

for fully thirty days . . .

With a fabliau of so obvious a moral, it's not too difficult to

intuit what kind of fiction or plot must follow. Aignan tours his

country, roaming back and forth, uphill and down again, arriving

at sundown in unfamiliar and unknown townships, proposing a

day's labour to local rustics and cartwrights and sacristans and

taking for his pay just a thin, fatty cut of bacon or a dry crust

with a scrap of garlic as its only garnish. Starvation gnaws at

him, thirst too, but nothing can kill him.

Whilst approaching his maturity, Aignan would soon know

how to adapt to almost any kind of situation confronting him,

would soon grow cool and nonchalant, fortifying his worldly

wisdom, magnifying his vision of his surroundings, his

Anschauung, and crossing paths with many curious and intriguing

individuals, all of whom would, in various ways, transform him,

by giving him a job of work to do, or board and lodging, or by

indicating a vocation to him. A con man would instruct him in

his craft; a mason would show him how to build a small but cosy

shack; a compositor would tutor him in printing a daily journal.

But that isn't all. What occurs now (as you'll find out) is a

hotchpotch of cryptic plots and complications, simulating, word

for word, action for action, its conclusion apart, that saga of

profound roots, that amusing but also moral and poignant story

that a troubadour, whom history knows as Hartmann, took for

his inspiration, and whom Thomas Mann would follow in his

turn, via a trio of short fictions.

Thus, to start with, Aignan is told that his papa was good King

Willigis (or Willo for short) and his aunt was Sibylla. Sibylla,

though, was so fond of Willigis, fond of him with a passion that

sat oddly with kinship, that sororal adoration would gradually

blossom into carnal lust (notwithstanding Willigis's faithful old

2 9

hound howling with horror and dying just as coition was about

to occur). Within 8 months and 23 days Aignan was born.

Blushing with guilt at his iniquity, hoping that castigation in

this world might guard him from damnation, Willigis (Willo for

short but not now for long) fought a holy war against Saladin

and was struck down, as was his wish, by an anonymous son of

Allah.

As for his Dauphin, Aignan, with immoral blood coursing

through his body, his mama, Sibylla, thought to abandon him

on a raft so that it might float away northwards to an insalubrious

district of filthy marshland, full of moronically drooling young

cutthroats (for adult consumption of alcohol was said to attain

as much as six gallons a month) and animals of unknown origin

but of, no doubt, voraciously carnivorous habits: talk was of a

dragon "stuffing guts wit' battalion, a' way down t' last drop o'

last man", as a charming patois had it in an inn into which many

locals would crowd for a warming drink on concluding a hard

day's work outdoors. In addition to which, it was always dark

and always drizzling - a cold, thin, stabbing, British sort of rain-

fall. Thus you wouldn't go far wrong in supposing that only

miraculous odds (I fancy a Christian would put it down to God

working in mystical ways and is probably right to do so; but

fiction has an intrinsic duty to contradict such an illusion of

propitiatory fatality; for if not, what's its point?) - in supposing,

as I say, that only miraculous odds could account for Aignan's

surviving up to and including his 18th birthday. But I mustn't

run on too quickly . . .

Anyway, on or about Aignan's 18th birthday, Sibylla, in a man-

sion fashionably got up a la brabanfon or flamand, is still doting, if now posthumously, on poor Willigis (or Willo) and turning

down all invitations to marry. A rich and rutting Burgundian

aristocrat pays court. Sibylla simply says no. "What!" says this

aristocrat in a purplish paroxysm of wrath, prior to razing half

of Hainault and marching on Cambrai.

3 0

But wait . . . At this point in my story, to Cambrai, clippity-

clop, clippity-clop, riding Sturmi, his black and bay brown

Anglo-Norman stallion, clippity-clop, clippity-clop, gallops a

knight-at-arms, with all you could ask for in youthful vigour and

good looks. Brought to Sibylla's mansion, this dazzling young

paladin charms his monarch, who commissions him to slay his

Burgundian rival. "Your wish is my command," fair Sir Adonis

says instantly, kissing his lady's hand and adding wittily, "And,

may I say, your command is actually my wish."

Mounting Sturmi, with its saffron housing and its caparison

of indigo, and illustrious in his own gold strappings inlaid with

opal, his cloak, his broad cuirass and his coat of armour, Adonis

gallops out into a sort of oblong paddock with paling all around

it. A fish adorns his standard; and a long standing ovation from

his Braban^on champions totally drowns out an irruption of scur-

rilous anti-Braban^on sloganising from a mob of Burgundian

hooligans and paid agitators.

What a bloody clash of arms it is, with onslaught following

onslaught, mortal blow confuting mortal blow, chain mail

clashing clamorously against chain mail, attacks by harpoon and

spontoon, hook and crook! In all it lasts a full day. Finally,

though, by a cunning ploy, young Adonis dismounts his rival:

victory is his.

Brabant and Burgundy mutually disarm. Joyful carillons ring

out in both lands. Floors throb to dancing, walls to playing of

hautboys, horns and drums, roofs to toasting of this artful young

paladin — now, by a logical promotion, known as Grand Admiral

of Brabant. And, complying with a royal summons, our Grand

Admiral pays an additional visit to Sibylla's mansion. Boy looks

at girl, girl looks at boy . . . imagining how it turns out is child's

play (or, should I say, adult's play).

Oh you, browsing or scanning or skimming or dipping into

my story, or actually studying it word for word, moving your

lips as you go, I must now throw light on a startling twist in its

tail, though you no doubt know without my having to inform

31

you who it is that Sturmi is carrying on its caparison - why,

that's right, it's Aignan.

Aignan, though, still blissfully ignorant of Sibylla's kinship

with him, falls into just that trap in which Oi'dipos was caught.

And Sibylla, ignorant of Aignan's analogous kinship, falls into

just that trap in which Jocasta was caught. For Sibylla admits to

an infatuation with Aignan. And Aignan admits in his turn to

an infatuation with Sibylla. And, without a filial qualm, Aignan

starts fornicating with Sibylla. And Sibylla, not surprisingly, starts

fornicating back.

Luckily or unluckily - it's hard to know which - Aignan all

too soon finds out what kind of filiation it is that links him with

Sibylla.

Sibylla, praying daily, not to say hourly, for God's pardon, has

a hospital built in which a crowd of filthy waifs and strays stay

for nothing, with not a limb, not a dirty hand or a stinking foot

or a gamily aromatic armpit, that its nursing staff will not lovingly

wash.

Aignan, donning a ragamuffin's rags, a hairshirt worn out of

mortification, with a stick in his hand, but without a vagrant's

rucksack or tin can, slips away at dusk from a mansion in which

an illusory and, alas, mortally sinful form of conjugal intimacy

lay almost within his grasp - slips far, far away, going hungry

and thirsty and living rough and tough, and pays for his infamous

conduct by asking God to vilify him, to damn him outright.

So pass four long and hard days of wayfaring, culminating in

his arrival at a poor woodman's hut. Aignan timidly knocks at

its door. In an instant its occupant is standing inquiringly in front

of him.

"Would you know," Aignan asks him, "of a Locus Solus not

far off in which, till Doomsday, God might punish my Sin

of Sins?"

"That I would, my lad, that I would," growls this doltish wood-

man (who is in fact as thick as two of his own planks). "Tis an

island, no, no, I'm wrong, 'tain't that at all, 'tis just a rock, sort

3 2

of a crag, look you, with an awful sharp drop down t' bottom

o' loch. Tis just th' spot, I'd say, for a man with drink or dam-

nation on his mind!"

"Oh woodman, do you own a boat?"

"That I do."

"And will you row it out to your island, your rock?" Aignan

asks him imploringly. "For my salvation!"

Though caught short by this proposal, his saviour concurs at

last, with a warning that Aignan will rot on such a solitary crag

- rot till his dying day.

"I wish only for God's will," says Aignan piously.

At which his rustic Charon murmurs a (slighdy incongruous)

chorus: "And so say all of us!"

So our young pilgrim sails forth to this Island of Lost Souls on

which his companion, almost throttling him, binds him to a rock

with a hangman's tight collar. A nourishing mould or humus

oozing by night out of a cavity in his rocky crucifix is his only

form of nutrition; a storm or a cutting blast or an icy south wind

or a burning simoon or a sirocco swirling about him his only roof;

a typhoon or a tidal flood his only wall; and his only clothing (for

his poor, worn, torn rags rot away as fast as crumbling old wood)

is his birthday suit, soon just as poor and worn and torn as his

rags. Not cold but glacial, not hot but roasting, Aignan stands

thus, a living symbol of contrition, a human incarnation of purga-

torial pain.

Now half-starving for want of food, now wholly fading away,

notwithstanding that mouldy humus that God in all His wisdom

and compassion has put his way, Aignan gradually grows thin,

his body physically contracts from day to day, from hour to hour,

it slims down and narrows out until unimaginably gaunt and

scrawny, until as small and insignificant as that of a dwarf, a

pygmy, a homunculus, until Aignan is nothing at last but a

shrimp of a man, a Hop-o'-my-Thumb . . .



* * *

3 3

18 springs pass. In Roman Catholicism's sanctum sanctorum Paul

VI is dying. Vatican City is in a tizzy: it must now swiftly appoint

a Paul VII and affirm papal continuity. But six polls go by - and

no Paul VII! This cardinal submits a proposal for an idiot and

that cardinal for a glutton, a third opts for a psychopath and a

fourth for an ignoramus. Corruption is rampant: anybody willing

to put down a cool million in cash can practically buy his nomina-

tion as pontiff. Things look bad. Faith is vacillating. Nobody

thinks to pray to his patron saint.

It's at this point that black clouds start forming in Abraham's

bosom, bolts of numinous lightning shoot down from on high

and Almighty God in all His wrath pays an unusual visit on a

Cardinal - unusual in that His outward form is that of a lamb,

a lamb with stigmata of blood on its flanks and a couch of fragrant

blooms to accompany it.

"O hark my words, Monsignor," God booms out at His

Cardinal. "Thou now hast that Vicar of Christ that thou sought

in vain. I, thy all-knowing King of Kings, do appoint Aignan as

My apostolic missionary — Aignan, who hast, in that corporal

nudity and purity which was My birthday gift to him, for so long

stood upright upon a rock and for just as long withstood without

flinching My tidal attacks upon him."

"O Lamb of God, O Lamb That is God, O God That is Lamb,"

His adoring Cardinal croaks, words stumbling out any old how,

"I will do as Thou commandst!"

Thus an official inquiry tracks down this Aignan who calls

God's wrath upon him with truly Christian humility (and a hint,

too, of pagan stoicism); and at long last, following many trials

and tribulations, a commission of Cardinals stands in front of that

woodman's hut from which Aignan, so long ago, was brought to

his island prison. To start with, though, its occupant is in a

slighdy noncommittal mood, mumbling:

"Aignan, y'say? No . . . don't know any Aignan. Don't know

any island. No island as I know of in this part of world."

Finally, with a tidy sum of gold coins to coax him out of his

3 4

mutism, Aignan's oarsman talks. A boat sails forth chock-a-block

with Cardinals who start laboriously climbing that rocky promon-

tory on which, through thick and thin, Aignan is living out his

martyrdom. On top of it, though, no martyr, no Aignan, nobody

at all is found (proof that Our Lord is occasionally wrong, a

notion that brings about a profound diminution of faith in His

flock) - just thin air, nothing, a void. So God, too, alas, is only

human.

Thomas Mann notwithstanding, such was my story's only con-

clusion, murmurs Anton Vowl, writing "finis" on his manuscript,

his rough draft, I should say, or synopsis, as, with his chronically

vivid imagination now running riot, Vowl simply cannot bring

his task to what you might call authorial fruition, jotting down

25 or 26 random notations, amplifying 5 or 6 crucial points,

drawing a portrait of Aignan that's both thorough and scrupu-

lously fair, ditto for Aignan's Burgundian rival ("a tall thug of a

man, with short hair and long auburn muttonchops": it's obvious

that his inspiration was his own Dr Cochin, who had brought

him back to tip-top physical condition), coining (though only in

a short paragraph) an amusing nautical-cum-Scotch patois for

that wily old bumpkin who was willing to row Aignan out to

his island limbo ("Avast an' ahoy! All aboard who's going! Oh,

but it's a braw, bricht, moonlicht nicht th'nicht, an' that's a fact!")

and portraying his and Sibylla's tragicomic imbroglio with a

touch so tactful that a Paul Morand, a Giraudoux or a Maupassant

would not disown it.

But that's as far as it got: in his diary Vowl would try to justify

his procrastination on slighdy unusual grounds. If (is his a priori

postulation) I could finish my story, I would; but if it truly had

a conclusion, would it not contain a fund of wisdom of such cold

hard purity, of such crystal clarity, that not any of us, just dipping

into it, could think to go on living? For (Vowl scrawls away) it's

a quality of fiction that it allows of only a solitary Aignan to rid

us of a Sphinx. With Aignan put out of action, no triumphant

3 5

Word will again afford us consolation. Thus (signing off) no

amount of prolix circumlocution, brilliant as it may sound, can

abolish flip-of-a-coin fortuity. But again (adding a wistful post-

script) it is our only option: all of us should know that a Sphinx

might assail us at any instant; all of us should know that, at any

instant, a word will do its utmost to thwart that Sphinx - a word,

a sound, an if or a but. For - as Zarathustra might say - no

Sphinx is living that inhabits not our human Mansion . . .

3 6

1

Which, notwithstanding a kind of McGuffin, has no

ambition to rival Hitchcock

It's on All Saints Day that Anton Vowl would first go missing

— as possibly an offshoot of his noticing, just two days prior to

this vanishing act, a most alarming story in his Figaro.

It was all about an unknown individual (a man, so rumour

had it, of such vast, almost occult authority that no journalist

had sought to crack his incognito), who had, at night, unlawfully

burst into a commissariat building that was said to contain many

important official manuscripts and got away with a particularly

hush-hush account of a major scandal implicating a trio of guards

at Poulaga Prison. Normalising such a situation was an awkward

task; convincing so diabolically crafty a burglar to hand back such

a compromising manuscript just as awkward; but it was crucial

to do so, for this kind of traitor usually has no difficulty in finding

a nation willing to buy his goods at any cost. But though it was

obvious that X . . . (for our burglar holds a high-ranking position

to this day and is, I am told, a notoriously litigious man) had

put it away out of sight in his flat, ransacking that flat again and

again had thrown up nothing significant.

Staking all on a hunch, a Commandant, Romain ("I just want

th' facts, ma'am") Didot, along with Garamond, his adjutant and

Man Friday, pays a visit to Dupin, known for his unfailing gift

for nosing things out.

"/4 priori," Didot informs him, "it's not our constabulary's job to worry about such a burglary. For anything . . . 'normal', shall

I say, in our filing library, for an x or y, nobody'd complain too 3 7

much. But this sort of McGuffin is, I'm afraid, just a tiny bit too

significant to —"

"McGuffin? McGuffin?" Dupin, to whom this word's conno-

tation is a total blank, savours it in his mouth for an instant or

two.

Didot grins. "Pardon my film buff slang. Put simply, I want

you to know that solving this burglary is vital to us, in that it'll

ruin, it'll undo, what can I say, it'll play bloody havoc with our

organisation. Why, it risks cutting our working capacity by up

to 20%!"

"So," asks Dupin, "you say you shook down our burglar's flat,

high and low, with a toothcomb? Is that right?"

"Uh huh," admits an unhappy Didot, "but I can't say I found

anything incriminating. And I was as thorough as any of my

rivals from Scotland Yard!"

"Hmm," grunts Dupin. "It's as plain as daylight. You hunt

high and low, you tap walls and floors, but without any luck;

for whilst you may think that your approach is obvious, it's ironi-

cally that which is truly obvious that it can't account for. Hasn't

it struck you that your criminal had to find a hiding spot that a

big, plodding flatfoot - it's you I'm alluding to, Didot - wouldn't

think of looking at, and would probably not stash his loot away

at all but simply stick it into an ordinary blotting pad, a blotting

pad that you probably had your hand on again and again, without

knowing what it was, without caring or trying to know that

what it had on it was no casual scrawl but your own almighty

McTavish!"

"McGuffin," says Didot sulkily, still smarting from Dupin's

insults. "Anyway, I saw no such blotting pad."

"That's what you think," Dupin murmurs with ironic

suavity.

Putting on his mackintosh, taking a big black brolly out of its

stand and unlocking his front door, Dupin turns to Didot and

says, "I'm off. In a twinkling I'll hand you back that manuscript

of yours."

3 8

But — not that anybody could fault his logic - but our famous

dick was, on this particular occasion, all wrong.

"I'm PO'd, truly PO'd" (PO was a contraction of "piss off"),

sighs Dupin; who, at that point, as consolation, and allowing

Didot and his constabulary to work it all out without his aid,

starts tracking down a homicidal orang-utan with a grisly trio of

victims.

If Dupin should fail, though having it all within his grasp from

A to Z, how can I possibly look forward to my own salvation,

to my own absolution? That's what Anton Vowl jots down in

his diary - adding:

"I did so want to sink into an alcoholic coma. I did so want

to finish my days in a softly intoxicating and long dying torpor.

But, alas, I cannot avoid . . . a void! Who? What? That's for you

to find out! 'It' is a void. It's today my turn to march towards

mortality, towards that fatal hour, towards 'that good night' (as

Dylan Thomas put it), that 'undiscovYd country from which

bourn no man . . .' and so forth, towards omission and annihila-

tion. I f s a must. I'm sorry. I did so want to know. But a lancinating agony gnaws at my vitals. I can only talk now in a dry, throaty,

painfully faint hum. O my mortality, a fair ransom for such a

mad compulsion as that which has had my mind in its tight grip.

Anton Vowl."

And to that Vowl adds a postscript, a postscript which shows

him as having truly lost his mind: "I ask all 10 of you, with a

glass of whisky in your hand — and not just any whisky but a

top-notch brand — to drink to that solicitor who is so boorish as

to light up his cigar in a zoo" - adds, finally, and almost as though

initialling a last will, a trio of horizontal strips (No. 2, curiously,

isn't as long as its two companions) with an ambiguously

indistinct scrawl on top.

Was it a suicidal act? Did Vowl put an automatic to his brow?

Or slit his wrists in a warm bath? Swallow a tall glass of

3 9

aqua-toffana? Hurl his car into an abysmal chasm, a yawning pit,

abysmal till Doomsday, yawning till Doomsnight? Turn on his

flat's gas supply? Commit hara-kiri? Spray his body with napalm?

Jump off Paris's Pont du Nord by night into a flowing black

miasma?

Nobody knows, or can know, if his way of quitting this world

was wholly of his own volition; nobody in fact knows if Vowl

did quit this world at all.

But, four days on, a chum of his, who had found Anton's last

writings alarming and had thought to support him through what

was obviously a major crisis, was to knock at his flat's front door

in vain. His car was still placidly sitting in its hangar. No stains

of blood on floor or wall. No clothing, nor any trunk to carry it

in, missing.

Anton Vowl, though, was missing.

4 0

I L L U S O R Y P A R D O N S F O R ANTON Y O W L

a Japan without kimonos,

a smoking boa constrictor on a curling rink;

a flamboyant black man,

a shrill cry of nudity in a plain song,

a kindly scorpion,

10 bankrupt tycoons spitting on a stack of gold coins,

a gloating sorrow,,

a simoon in a long Finnish corridor,

a profound cotton hanky:

that's what could rid our world of Anton Vowl. . .

a hippy cardinal shouting out an anti-Catholic slogan,

a razor for citrus fruits,

a raid on a trio of British bandits by a Royal Mail train,

a straight compass,

a man's tummy-button from which a volcano spouts forth,

a land only natal by adoption,

a twilit balcony supporting a lunatic who has lost an arm,

a crucifix without a Christ,

a sisal pissing Chardonnay for magicians without cloaks;

that's what would function as a pardon for Anton Vowl. . .

a farrago without fustian,

a looking glass dull from a tiny, not spiny, fish,

autumnal grazing,

a myriad of billows rolling in from a promontory,

a faithful old hunting-gun,

4 1

a whitish burn, a body without body, a world without war,

an illusory omission,

that's what would stop Anton Vowl from dying . . .

but how to construct it all in just that instant in which is

born a Void?

4 2

1

Which, following a compilation of a polymath's random

jottings, will finish with a visit to a zoo

Anton Vowl's bosom companion is a man known as Amaury

Conson.

Conson has (or had) six sons. His firstborn, Aignan (odd,

that), did a vanishing act similar to Vowl's almost 30 springs

ago, in Oxford, during a symposium run by a soi-disant Martial

Cantaral Foundation and in which Lord Gadsby V. Wright,

Britain's most illustrious scholar and savant, was a participant.

Conson's following son, Adam, was to pass away in a sanatorium,

succumbing to inanition through wilful auto-starvation. And that

was only to start with: in Zanzibar a monstrous shark would

swallow Ivan, his third; in Milan his fourth, Odilon, Luchino

Visconti's right-hand man at La Scala, had a particularly bony

portion of turbot catch in his throat; and in Honolulu his fifth,

Urbain, was a victim of hirudination, slain by a gigantic worm

sucking his blood, totally draining him, so that as many as 20

transfusions would fail to bring him back. So Conson has a soli-

tary surviving son, Yvon; but his liking for Yvon is gradually

diminishing, as Yvon, living so far away, now hardly visits his

poor old dad.

Conson ransacks Anton Vowl's flat from top to bottom; calls on

that Samaritan living two doors down who informs him about

Cochin ablating Vowl's sinus; and asks anybody who might assist

him in tracking down his companion.

Vowl's flat is in a most unpromising sort of building, wholly

4 4

without "standing": walls in a whitish stucco; filthy, poor-quality

cotton rugs losing tufts of dank hair on an almost daily basis; a

narrow drawing room; an untidy living room with a mouldy sofa

josding a cupboard that has a rancid oniony stink about it and

a trio of horribly kitschy prints stuck on to its shaky doors with

a Band-Aid; a bow window of milky-murky glass giving off a

dark and turbid glow, a pallid photocopy of sunlight; a monkish

cot to doss down on with torn pillows and a quilt full of scummy

stains; and a dingy lavatory-cum-washroom with a jug, a pot, a

bowl, a razor and a washcloth hanging all in rags, off which

a tiny stowaway of an animal, a moth but just possibly a rat, had

got fat.

Cautiously lifting down, from a flagrandy DIY-built rack, a

stack of dusty old books with grubby bindings and torn stitchings

and a lot of rambling, criss-crossing annotations and marginalia,

Amaury is drawn to 5 or 6 works that Vowl was obviously study-

ing with a particular goal in mind: Gombrich's Art and Illusion,

Witold Gombrowicz's Cosmos, Monica Wittig's L'Opoponax,

Thomas Mann's Doctor Faustus, Noam Chomsky, Roman

Jakobson and, finally, Louis Aragon's Blanc ou I'Oubli.

Now Conson starts rummaging about a bulky cardboard box

and finds a host of manuscripts proving to his satisfaction that

his companion was thirsty for instruction, for Vowl, who was

always an anal, finicky sort of chap, hadn't thrown out anything

dating from his schooldays. Studying it rapdy, practically word

by word, Amaury could thus follow from its halting origins all

of what you might call Anton's curriculum studiorum.

First, composition:

Ld ou nous virions jadis, il n'y avait ni autos, ni taxis, ni

autobus; nous allions parfois, mon cousin m'accompagnait,

voir Linda qui habit ait dans un canton voisin. Mais, n'ay ant

pas d'auto, il nous fallait courir tout au long du parcours;

sinon nous arrivions trop tard: Linda avait disparu.

4 5

Unjour vint pourtant ou Linda partitpour toujours. Nous

aurions du la bannir a jamais; mais voild, nous Vaimions.

Nous aimions tant son parfum, son air rayonnant, son blou-

son, son pantalon brun trop long; nous aimions tout.

Mais voild, tout finit: trois ans plus tard, Linda mourut;

nous I'avons appris par basard, un soir, au cours d'un lunch.

Now philosophy:

Kant, analysing a priori intuition, had for an instant a

nagging doubt about his Cogito ("I think, thus L am") and

its validity, knowing that it would fail to account for a situ-

ation in which God, musing on His own primacy in that

Trinity on which Christianity was built, might boast (but to

whom?) of constituting a holistic, all-including "I". "And

so," said Kant, "Spinoza thought to accomplish a mutation

that would abolish all godhood? Judaising Baruch? Bandag-

ing 'Natural suturing it (or, should I say, saturating it),

closing up its gaps, by a Siv with aspirations to Infinity!"

Thus, a Platonician by anticipation, but fallaciously so, Kant

saw Spinoza as part of a long tradition of castrating cosmolo-

gists. For, many moons prior to that, Plato, killing off all

archaists, saw that no participant having his origin in that

cosmic "I" could bring it to a concision.

That aboriginal Arc thus found its triangulation, drawing

out its diagonal to its sinusoidal tip, casting a sharp point at

Kant's brow, causing him to pass away from having thought

for an instant of a Cogito without a God.

Maths:

On Groups.

(By Marshall Hall Jr LIT 28, folios 5 to 18 inclus.)

Who first had this particular notion, who brought it to its

maturity, who found a solution to it? Was it Gauss or Galois?

Nobody could say. Nowadays, though, all of us know. But it's

said that, just prior to dying, at night, at about 4 or 5 a.m.,

4 6

Galois put in writing on his jotting pad (Marshall Hall Jr,

op. cit, folio B) a long, continuous chain of factors in his own

form of notation. To wit:

aa -1 = bb - 1 = cc - 1 = dd - 1 = f f - 1 =

gg — 1 = hh — 1 = ii — 1 = jj — 1 = kk — 1 =

U — 1 = mm — l = nn — 1 = oo — l=pp — 1 =

qq — 1 = rr — 1 = ss — 1 = tt — 1 = uu — 1 =

w — 1 = ww — 1 = xx — 1 = yy — 1 = zz — 1 =

As part of his manuscript is missing, though, nobody knows

to this play what conclusion Galois was hoping to draw from

his calculations.

Cantor, Douady andBourbaki thought, on many and vari-

ous grounds (from algorithms to topoi, from Mobius strips to

C-star, from Shih's K-functor to Thorn's Qf, and including all

sorts of distributions, involutions, convolutions, Schwartz, Koszul,

Carton and Giorgiutti) of following a hunch that would sur-

mount such an abrupt hiatus. It was, alas, all in vain.

Though it took him from 1935 to 1955, working at it

virtually nonstop, Pontryagin finally had to admit to accom-

plishing nothing.

Just 8 months ago, though, Kan, working on his own

adjoint (cit, D. Kan Adjoint Functors Transactions, V, 3,

18) could, it was said, show by induction (his calculation -

so Kan told Jaulin - had a major cardinal as its basis) this

proposition: G or H or K (H a G, G K), 3 magmas

(following Kurosh) in which a(bc) - (ab)c; in which, if a is

a constant, x > xa, x > ax do not "vary", so that G ~ H

x K, ifG = H\JK; ifH is as invariant as K; ifH has

with K a solitary unit in common H fl K = Alas! as Kan

quit this world prior to bringing his work to fruition, a sol-

ution is not jbrthcoming.

Pastoral:

It is a story about a small town. It is not a gossipy yarn; nor

is it a dry, monotonous account, full of such customary

4 7

"fill-ins" as "romantic moonlight casting murky shadows

down a long, winding country road". Nor will it say anything

about tinkling, lulling, distant folds, robins carolling at twi-

light or any "warm glow oflamplightf'from a cabin window.

No...

Continuing his inquiry, Amaury Conson also finds out that

Anton Vowl had a fascination with aboriginal customs:

In Gogni (Chad) a Sokoro, clad in his traditional tunic, a

tunic as long as a raglan coat such as a snobbishly insular

Parisian might sport whilst on safari, paid a visit to a son

of his who was living in Mokulu as a willing victim of

an unusual (and, until now, unknown) marital status con-

stituting a paradoxical - or, as anthropologists say, "uxori-

local" - form of subjugation. It was no doubt wrong of him

to jurnish a youth to such mountain folk (or Diongors),

thus forcing him out of his own tribal circuit, with its basic,

lucid, rigorous - in a word, structural - warp and woof of

articulation.

Sun or Margina, Uti or Kaakil, Longai or Zori - O

almighty rain gods, grant us comfort in our sorrow. What I

now pray for is oblivion, that soft, cradling balm of oblivion,

for my solitary misdoing. If not, would you slay a man for

simply, unmindfully, ignoring his duty?

Finally, avoiding both Scylla and Charybdis, our Sokoro

saw a witch doctor who told him that what would pacify his

Sun was sacrificing a goat kid - and, as an additional victim,

a black cock, so as to find grain for a rainy day.

Zoology:

Ovibus, or musk-ox: an animal, half-lamb and half-bullock.

Its natural habitat is that snowbound Arctic or Russian plain

that is commonly known as a "tundra". Its skin, which turns

soft if you pound it, has a sharp and piquantly liquorish

flavour. To catch hold of such an animal, you must fix upon

4 8

what you think is a propitious occasion, lying flat out as it

runs towards you and pouncing on it just as its front hoof

looms up in front of you, monstrous and intimidating.

As soon as you put your hands on its throat, surrounding

it, it looks up at you, starts lowing and, in its turn, squats

along by you and actually nods off.

At which point you will find that its body, with its aroma

of acacia, alfa, alfilaria, onion, oxalis, origanum, upas and

union, is oddly soft to your touch.

Urus, or aurochs: a wild ox living in our own country

and not found in any zoo. I f s said, though, that you may

occasionally find, on a nocturnal trot, a urus casting its

hunchback shadow. Not so: its back has no hump at all. Nor

has it any dip. In fact, it's just a boringly normal sort of back.

So why should anybody hold forth on a urus ?

Social conflicts:

3 May 1968. "Agitation on Boul'Mich", so would claim a

Figaro photo-caption. Slavishly carrying out his boss's com-

mand, an adjutant had a battalion of cops attack a crowd

of anarchists, communists and sundry radicals who, wanting

only what was right and just, sought total and unconditional

pardon for six companions rotting in jail. A giant slab of

paving brought from a courtyard was thrown at a Black

Maria crawling with vicious gun-toting gorillas. A mound

of paving bricks was soon built up in front of it; and a wiry

old poplar, its thick trunk sawn in half, lay diagonally across

a chaotic, haphazard mass of burning cars. Worrying that

this situation was about to turn against him, Grimaud

did not balk at imposing a pogrom, and his thuggish

minions would thrash, gas and harass many a half-moribund

agitator.

But public opinion wasn't for long in his favour. A crowd

a million strong took Paris by storm, brandishing black flags

and crimson flags and shouting out anti-dictatorial slogans:

4 9

"Down with Gaullism!', 'Charly is not our Darling!" and

«CRS - ssr.

Grouping Parts's population according to job classification,

a union got all work to stop, all production to shut down, and

had sit-ins in public transport, coal basins, shops, workshops,

schools, mills and dockyards. Gas-stations would soon start to

go short. . .

And Sarrish patois:

Man sagt dir, komm doch mal ins Landhaus. Man sagt dir,

Stadtvolk muss aufi Land, muss zuriick zur Natur. Man

sagt dir, komm bald, moglichtst am Sonntag. Du brummst

also los, nicht zu frith am Tag, das will man nicht. Am

Nachmittag fdhrst du durchs Dorf, in Richtung Sportplatz.

Vorm Sportplatz fdhrst du ab. Kurz darauf bist du da. Du

hoist am Tor, durch das du nicht hindurchkannst, parkst das

Auto und blickst dich um. Du glaubst, nun taucht vor dir

das Haus auf, doch du irrst dich, da ist das Dach. Ringsum

Wald, dickichtartig, Wildnis fast. Wold, wohin du schaust.

Baum und Strauch sind stark im Wuchs. Am Pfad wachst

Minzkraut auch Gras, frisch, saftig und griin. Ins Haus,

wovon du nur das Dach sahst. Du traumst, doss das Haus,

wovon du nur das Dach sahst, laubumrankt, gross und mcich-

tig ist. Mit Komfort natiirlich, Klo und Bad und Bild im

Flur. Dazu Mann und Frau stoltz vorm Kamin. Traumst

du, doch das Tor ist zu und ins Haus, wovon du nur das

Dach sahst, kannst du nicht. Nachts, auch das traumst du

noch, loscht man das Licht und danngliiht rot und idyllisch

das Holz im Kamin. So traumst du vor dich hin, doch man

macht das Tor nicht auf, obwohl Sonntag ist. Da sagt man

dir also, komm doch mal ins Landhaus und dann kommst

du wirklich zum Landhaus und bist vorm Landhaus und

kommst doch nicht ins Landhaus und warst umsonst am

Landhaus und fdhrst vom Landhaus aus zuriick nach

Haus. . .

5 0

At long last, on top of a writing pad of an ochrous gold similar

to that of artificial chamois, Amaury Conson finds Anton Vowl's

diary; unclasps it; sifts through it till night falls; and thoughtfully

shuts it again. It's dark out. Conson hails a passing cab - "To

our local commissariat, pronto" - and, worn out by his day's

probing, flops down on its baggy back cushion.

Waiting for hours in this commissariat, having to hang about

until past midnight, maniacally twiddling his thumbs, Conson

slowly starts going crazy. Finally, a dispiritingly doltish-looking

individual sits down in front of him, biting on, occasionally just

sucking on, with a horrid slurping sound, a gigantic ham sand-

wich, washing it down with a low-quality Pinot blanc drunk out

of a plastic cup and, whilst so doing, casually drawing blobs of

moist wax from his auditory canal with a toothpick and scouring

his flat, simian nostrils with his thumbs.

"Now now," says this typically stolid cop, through a mouthful

of York ham, "what I think is this. Your pal vows to blow his brains

out, and did blow his brains out. So that's that, isn't it? If not, why

would anybody say such a thing? Am I right or am I right?"

Amaury stubbornly sticks to his guns. "But, you idiot, I saw

his diary, I saw his flat! In addition to which, Anton did not vow

to blow his brains out, it was imagining his brains blown out by

an assassin that was making him shit his pants. You won't find

his body, you know! It's a kidnapping, an abduction!"

"An abduction? So your . . . hunch, shall I say," (this said with

an infuriatingly ironic smirk on his ugly mug) "is that it was an

abduction? But why, pray? This isn't Chicago, you know . . ."

Conson, at a loss for words, aghast at such crass buck-passing,

at last thinks to ring up a cousin of his, a Quai d'Orsay official,

who in his turn consults with an admiral who has a word with a

commandant who upbraids Conson's sandwich-munching ironist

and pulls strings to put a cop at his disposal, a Corsican, Ottavio

Ottaviani.



* * *

51

So Amaury calls on Ottaviani (who inhabits a top-floor maid's

room in a dingy block of flats adjoining a subway station,

Sablons, not far from Paris's Jardin d'Acclimatation) and finds

him, a fat, slobbish layabout, rocking to and fro in a rococo

rocking chair, lolling back on a cushion of soft kapok quilting

around which loops a braid as snakily sinuous as that on a hussar's

uniform, dunking a rollmop in a big bowl of dills and swallowing

it with a noisy smacking of his lips.

"All right," says this Ottaviani with a burp, "I was put at your

disposal. So what's it all about?"

"Just this," says Amaury: "Anton Vowl is missing. About 3

days ago I had a postcard from him announcing his flight. In my

opinion, though, it's actually a kidnapping."

"Why a kidnapping?" asks a civil but doubtful Ottaviani.

"Anton Vowl was on to. . ." murmurs Amaury in ominous

fashion.

"On to what?"

"Nobody knows what. . ."

"So?"

"In his diary I found 5 or 6 odd hints that you and I ought

to follow up. In it, notably, Vowl claims both to know and not

know; or, should I say, not know but also know . . ."

"If you want my opinion, this is all a bit of a - "

"His postcard," says Amaury, unflinching, "had a curious post-

script. It said: 'I ask all 10 of you, with a glass of whisky in your

hand - and not just any whisky but a top-notch brand - to drink

to that solicitor who is so boorish as to light up his cigar in a

zoo.' By that it was plainly his wish to tip us off and, in my

opinion, you and I should look into it and also study his diary,

which, mark my words, contains a lot of important

information . . ."

"Uh huh," says Ottaviani, though with a total lack of convic-

tion. "This affair is proving a tough nut to crack."

"First of all," submits Conson, ignoring his doubts, "you and

I might go for a stroll around a zoo."

5 2

"A zoo?" Our Corsican's jaw drops. "Why go to a zoo with a

Jardin d'Acclimatation just fifty yards away?"

"Think, Ottaviani! That solicitor so boorish as to light up his

cigar in a zoo'!"

"Okay, okay," says Ottaviani with a compliant sigh, "you go

to a zoo and I'll ask around at a handful of hospitals to find out

if anybody has brought him in."

"Good thinking," says Amaury. "I'll join up with you tonight

to discuss our findings. Midnight at Maxim's, what do you say?"

"Lipp isn't as pricy."

"Right. Lipp it is."

Thus Amaury trots off to Paris's world-famous zoo, photo-

graphs a Sahara lion and cautiously hands a candy bar to a chimp

that has thrown a twig at him. Pumas, cougars, stags, muskrats

and mountain goats. A lynx. A yak. And, without warning:

"You! Lord, what a small world it is!"

It's Olga, a distant cousin of a Canadian consul in Frankfurt,

and a woman who has always had a passion for Anton.

Olga starts crying. "Oh, Amaury, darling Amaury, do you

think Anton is . . . is . . . "

"No, Olga, I don't. Missing, I'm afraid so. But not .. . no,

no, not that."

"Did you also obtain a postcard from him advising you of his

going away for good?"

"I did. And didjyowr postcard also contain a PS about a solicitor

smoking in a zoo?"

'That's right. But you won't find any solicitor in this zoo."

"Who can say?" murmurs Amaury.

And, in fact, at that point, as if by magic, standing not far from

a pool simulating, with uncanny naturalism, a mini-Kamchatka, a

pool in which a host of birds, fish and mammals play as happily

as infants in a sandpit - frogs, squids, cormorants, basilisks,

dolphins, finbacks, cachalots, blackfish, lizards, dugongs and

narwhals - Amaury spots, and naturally accosts, a man just about

to light a cigar.

5 3

"Good morning," says this individual.

"Morning. Now, my good man,' Amaury asks him straight

out, 'do you know of any solicitors in this zoo?"

"I do. I am such a solicitor." (This is said with blunt, oddly

disarming candour.)

"Shhh," says Amaury, "not so loud. And did you know Anton

Vowl?"

"I got him to do occasional odd jobs."

"Do you think Vowl is still living?"

"Who knows?"

"And you? I didn't catch your . . ."

"Hassan Ibn Abbou, High Court Solicitor, 28 Quai Branly,

Alma 18-23."

"Did Anton also mail you a puzzling postcard similar to that

which both of us got prior to his vanishing?" Amaury pompously

asks him.

"I did."

"And do you know what its closing words signify?"

"I didn't at first. But now I think that Anton was making an

allusion to yours truly by writing about a cigar-smoking solicitor.

Which is why I instandy took a taxi to this zoo. As for his tots

of whisky, I had no notion of what it was all about until noticing

this morning in my Figaro that Longchamp's Grand Prix is just

3 days off."

"I don't follow."

"You will! For it has a trio of odds-on nominations: Scribouil-

lard III, Whisky 10 and Capharnaiim."

"So your hunch is that Anton was subtly hinting at this Grand

Prix?" says Olga, who, until that point, hadn't said a word.

Amaury cuts in. "Who can say? It's an indication worth follow-

ing up, though. You, Hassan and I will go to Longchamp this

coming Monday."

"Talking of which," says Hassan, "I got from Anton Vowl,

a month or so ago, 26 cartons containing all his labours, all

that hard, cryptic work that Vowl was carrying out in his flat. I

5 4

know of no surviving kinfolk of his who can claim familial,

suppositional, optional or subsidiary rights to this voluminous

body of work. So I think it normal that you hold it in trust,

particularly as it might contain all sorts of hints vital to our

inquiry."

"How soon can Olga and I study it?"

"Not until Monday, I'm afraid, as I'm just about to go off to

Aillant-sur-Tholon. But I'm coming back on Monday morning

and I'll contact you both. At that point you should know what

Anton Vowl was trying to say in his allusion to 'a glass of

whisky'."

Amaury laughs. "I'm willing to go as far as to put 10 francs

on that nag."

"So am I," adds Olga.

"Good," says Hassan, consulting his watch. "Gracious, I must

run! My train's at 4.50. So long! Till Monday night!"

"God go with you," murmurs Olga piously.

"Ciao," says Amaury.

Striding away, Hassan is soon out of sight. With Olga follow-

ing him, Amaury idly strolls from animal to animal; but, finding

nothing of any import, asks Olga out to a charming lunch.

Whilst Amaury is at Paris's zoo, Ottavio Ottaviani is paying a

visit to its hospitals, Broca, Foch, Saint-Louis and Rothschild;

and inquiring in many of its commissariats. Nobody has any

information for him about Anton Vowl.

At midnight, though, hurrying on towards Lipp, at that busy

Vavin-Raspail roundabout, who should our Corsican run into

but Amaury, who quickly grasps his arm and mouths at him in

a vivid dumb-show, "Don't go in, Lipp is simply crawling with

cops!"

"Not too far off," says Ottaviani, who occasionally had a habit

of confiding information not normally for public consumption,

"not too far off is an individual whom this country's top brass

want, shall I say . . . to go missing."

5 5

"Missing?" Amaury, thinking to catch a whiff of his quarry,

practically jumps out of his skin.

"Damn it!" says Ottaviani, cursing his stupidity at passing on

such hush-hush information to a layman.

"Now, now, Ottaviani, out with it! Vowl is also missing!"

"This affair has nothing to do with him," affirms Ottaviani.

"How do you know?" says Amaury, adding, with an authority

that allows no pussyfooting on Ottaviani's part, "Who is this

individual?"

"A Moroccan," admits Ottaviani.

"A Moroccan!" shouts Amaury.

"Shhh," murmurs Ottaviani, looking around anxiously. 'That's

right, a Moroccan. A Moroccan solicitor . . . "

"Hassan Ibn Abbou!" Amaury proclaims in triumph.

5 6

1

In which an unknown individual has it in for

Moroccan solicitors

"No," says Ottaviani with his usual sang-froid, "it isn't Ibn Abbou

but Ibn Barka."

"Oh, thank God, that's a load off my mind," says Amaury with

a sigh, afraid, without knowing why, first for Hassan Ibn Abbou,

and, a fortiori, if almost subliminally, for his own skin. For if

Anton Vowl falls victim to an abductor (or abductors), who's to

say that this abductor (or abductors) won't now try to lay a hand

on his faithful companions, Olga, Hassan and so forth?

Conson, with Ottaviani dogging him, walks off to Harry's Bar,

sits down (in a dark ill-lit booth so as to avoid gossip), signals

to a barman and asks for a whisky, a Chivas, straight. Ottaviani's

fancy is for a Baron but without any thick, sudsy collar of froth

on top. Munich or stout? Our Corsican hums and haws for an

instant, saying at last "Oh, Munich'll do," simply as a way of

dismissing a barman who visibly cannot wait to chat up a pair

of young girls in an adjoining booth and is sarcastically, not to

say "smart-asstically", humming "Why am I waiting?".

Without choosing to go into all its various ins and outs,

Ottaviani sums up what was most scandalous about Ibn Barka's

kidnapping. It was a total cock-up from start to finish. Paris-Soir,

a right-wing rag that was normally of a rampantly colonialist

bias, sought to stir things up by publishing a lot of juicy, malici-

ous rumours. Public indignation was at boiling point. Diplomats

would go to ground, politicians usually avid for publicity would

5 7

abruptly drop out of sight. Papon took an oath that it had noth-

ing to do with him. Souchon, though, at last had to own up to

it, as did Voitot. All Matignon took fright at a diary by Figon

incriminating a high-court dignitary, which was finally, if not

without difficulty, shown up as a fabrication. Oufkir had an alibi

- if you could call so ridiculous a story an alibi! Nor, following

Fugon's hara-kiri a la Mishima (in fact, so rumour had it, this

was not a totally voluntary affair, for, calmly placing a sword in

front of him, and saying only, in an odd transatlantic twang, that

"a man's gotta do what a man's gotta do", his boss at Matignon

had no doubt in his mind what would occur) — nor, I say, did

any inquiry gain much ground. With an accumulation of damning

data, opposition politicians saw an opportunity of indicting a

form of tyranny guilty of an act so arrandy criminal as to go as

far as confiscating a tract that sought to point up a shadowy

conspiracy linking this abduction of Ibn Barka with that, six

months prior to it, of Argoud in Zurich. Talk was of a contract

going out to a commando of informants, outcasts of all kinds,

all of whom had criminal pasts as long as your arm (mosdy bank

jobs) and who had also had payoffs from Matignon for having

brought off 5 or 6 political "liquidations": an antagonist of Bour-

guiba shot down in Frankfurt, ditto an African militant in Saint-

Moritz, Yazid in Louvain, Gabon's consul in Madrid! So, to

maintain in his position a cowardly tyrant, his waning authority

totally, and notoriously, in pawn to a major Parisian bank (Capi-

tal Fran^ais), Foccard had a rag-tag-and-bobtail gang of thugs,

good-for-nothings, gold, contraband and drugs Mafiosi, join up

with his battalion of bullyboys, all working hand in hand! It was

a squalid affair all right. Discussions would go on out of sight

in smoky back rooms. Though any small fry not up to scratch, any

moron placing his organisation at risk, was instandy (in gangland

lingo) "put out of harm's way", nothing and nobody could touch

its instigators, its VIPs, its "big boys" . . .

"Ho hum," murmurs Ottaviani, gulping down his Munich and

wiping its froth from his lips. 'Talk of a can of worms . . ."

5 8

It's his last word. Amaury sighs and, though Anton Vowl's

abduction has at first sight nothing at all to do with Ibn Barka's,

informs Ottaviani of visiting a zoo, running into Olga, and

Hassan Ibn Abbou, who was also trying to find his companion.

"Aha!" laughs Ottaviani. "So Vowl had a champion you didn't

know about!"

"Why . . . that's right," says Amaury, curious as to why Ottavi-

ani thought that important. Continuing, though: "Now look at

what you and I know. This morning I saw Hassan Ibn Abbou

in a zoo. But what was it that Anton Vowl said: 'A solicitor who

lights up his cigar in a zoo". So I rush off to this city's only zoo.

And what do I find? A solicitor lighting up a cigar. All right.

But what if said solicitor thought to turn up at said zoo and light

said cigar simply to conform to Anton's portrait of him, hoping

by so doing that Olga or I would contact him?"

"So," Ottaviani succincdy sums up, "it was possibly not for-

tuitous?"

"Fortuitous or calculating, who can say? But what I plan to

find out on Monday is what, if anything, was significant about

Anton's allusion to 10 tots of whisky. First, though, it's worth

studying a factor that's not as crucial but still apropos. To wit:

do you know Karamazov?"

"Dmitri of Karamazov Bros Inc. ?"

"No, his cousin Arnaud, who runs a taxi out of Clignancourt

and who would occasionally do odd jobs for Vowl. You could

find out for us if this Karamazov also knows of Anton's kid-

napping. Do that on Monday morning, will you, whilst I'm at

Longchamp."

"Just as you say, boss," grunts Ottaviani, snoozing into his

glass.

It's suffocatingly cold. So cold, in fact, no duck would think of

putting a foot outdoors, nor would a chimp (with brass balls or

not). But Ottavio Ottaviani is robustly striding along, as though

that night's thick, damp fog simply hasn't got through to him.

5 9

Arriving at Alma, Ottaviani mounts a bus that drops him at

Paris's famous Quai d'Orsay, stops an instant to catch his wind

and consult his watch. It's 11.40. Longchamp is still a long way

off.

"Off I go," says Ottaviani, mumbling inaudibly to nobody in

particular.

Not far from Orsay, only yards away from Iran's consular build-

ing, is a small snack bar with which our Corsican is familiar from

having had an occasional ham or salami sandwich in it. Ottaviani

walks in, dusty, haggard, worn out. A crowd of individuals is

propping up its bar.

"Ciao," says Ottaviani.

"Hullo, hullo," says Romuald, a barman who, though always

at work, is always smiling: "ain't a fit night out for man nor

animal."

"You can say that again," murmurs Ottaviani, vigorously blow-

ing into his hands. "Brrrr . . ."

"Only minus two, though," Romuald points out. "Not as cold

as all that."

"P'raps so, but it's blowing up a fair old storm," says Ottaviani.

"Can I bring you a sandwich? Parma ham, York ham, Italian

salami, Danish salami, bacon, black pudding, chipolata, cold

roast, tuna fish, Stilton, Cantal, Port-Salut, Gorgonzola? Or what

about a hot dog?"

"No thanks. A grog's all I want. I think I'm catching a cold."

"A grog for M. Ottaviani!" Romuald calls back to his assistant

who is busy cooking a plat du jour of osso bucco with artichauts

au romarin.

"Coming up!"

In an instant Ottaviani's drink plops down in front of him.

"A boiling hot grog," proclaims Romuald. "No cold can with-

stand it."

Ottaviani sips his grog.

"Mmmm, yummy."

"Not too sugary?"

6 0

"No, it's just right. Fit for a king."

'That's 23 francs 20 all told."

Ottaviani throws down a handful of coins, for which Romuald

thanks him.

Noticing, half out of sight, his boss, Aloysius Swann, idly

picking at a bowl of fruit, Ottaviani, cautiously balancing his

grog in his hand, thrusts his way through a crowd of drunks and,

still panting, sits down facing him.

"Hullo, boss."

"Hullo, Ottaviani," says Swann. "You okay?"

"Just so-so. I'm coming down with a cold."

"You want a yoghurt?"

"No, I'm not at all hungry."

"So?"

"So what?"

"Amaury Conson?"

"Conson still thinks it was a kidnapping."

"Sounds as if that's what it was," murmurs Swann.

"You think so too, but why?"

Without saying a word, Swann pulls a photocopy from his bag

and hands it to his adjutant.

"Good Lord!" Ottaviani almost shouts, "this is straight from

GHQ!"

And this is what it said:

Analysis of Consul Alain Gu. rin

to Royal G - P.R.C.

(Distribution S A C L A N T - "cosmic"

N A T O - S AG - G/PRC - 3.28.23)

A month ago an analysis from Orrouy's GHQ-NATO Comman-

dant, with corroboration from HCI Andilly, which midshipman

3/6.26 of Cp. Horn's straggling group thought to pass on to us

for confirmation, told us what was about to occur to Anton

6 1

Vowl. That month's K. Count was instantly put in by Mission

"NATO-cosmic" 5/28-Z.5. Anton Vowl was not on it. In

addition, an anti-abduction plan, joindy drawn up by Mission

"off days" 8/28-Z.5, instruction L 18, and by "cosmic 1A", was

soon circulating to all GRCs, SR assistants, SM assistants, HCIs,

ONIs, CICs, "G.3"s, BNDs, SIDs and "Prima 2"s - all, that is,

saving MI5, but including stimuli to various unorthodox com-

mando units.

Without wishing to imply that this information, of an A. 3 or

B.I rating, is not crucial, it is worth noting that, 18 days ago,

our organisation got virtually nothing out of placing all its

apparatus at point "3". Why was it such a thorough fiasco? HCI

Arlington claims to know: CIA infiltrations? but also SIS in our

staffs within NATO jurisdiction. It is said, in addition, that, by

compromising a soi-disant Bushy Man from Ankara, an Albanian

SR assistant had sought (and not, as it turns out, in vain) to gain

total control of his group.

Thus, to sum up this difficult situation, our organisation may

opt for (a) abandoning Anton Vowl to his doom or (b) instigat-

ing a casus - not a casus violationis, at most a casus damni: in my opinion, only our PM could find a solution to such an unusual

affair. Which is why I submit this analysis (in flagrant violation

of SR norms), advising you against consultation but in favour

of a global opinion plus instructions.

"God, it's got so many ramifications!" says Swann. "What did

Hassan Ibn Abbou say?"

"Oh, Hassan wasn't talking, but I'm going to confront him

tonight at midnight; with a bit of luck I might just find out

what's what. As for Olga, softly, softly. That's a young lady who

knows a lot but isn't giving too much of it away."

"You think so?"

"I know so. Talking of which, I saw Karamazov."

"And?"

6 2

"Karamazov saw Vowl on 3 occasions a month ago: (1) taking

him, by night, to a vacant, run-down bungalow in Aulnay-sous-

Bois; (2) by day, to play whist at Augustin Lippmann's club

(Karamazov won about 20 points off Vowl); and (3), most sig-

nificandy, just 20 days ago, Vowl had Karamazov fit an anti-

burglary contraption to his, that's to say to Vowl's, Fiat."

"Vowl had him fit an anti-burglary contraption to his

Fiat?"

"Yup."

"You don't say! But why?"

Ottaviani has simply no notion why and is hoping that Swann,

who has, it's said, a flair for a hunch worthy of a Sioux or an

Iroquois, will furnish him with a motivation. His boss, though,

lacking that crucial spark of inspiration, is not on form today.

"Why fit an anti-burglar}' contraption to his car?" murmurs

Swann, adding grumpily, "And to think that you and I at first

thought this affair was a cinch . . ."

A mutual sigh.

"It's all a ghasdy hotchpotch, particularly as I still don't know

who is hiding Anton Vowl."

With his hand Swann signals to Romuald, who says to him:

"A mocha? A cappuccino?"

"Thanks but no thanks. Just my bill, if you wouldn't mind."

"Righty-ho, I'll tot it up for you in a jiffy."

Scribbling on his pad with a Bic, Romuald murmurs:

"Tuna, plat du jour, Stilton, fruit, drink . . . that's 18 francs,

including tip."

"18 francs!" complains Swann. "Isn't that a bit stiff for what

I had?"

Romuald puts it down to VAT, whilst, for his part, Aloysius

actually calls him a crook. It all risks coming to fisticuffs, but

Ottaviani finally calms Swann, who, furious but compliant, if still

not brought round to Romuald's way of thinking, pays up.

On his way out, though, Swann is caught in a draught, dis-

charging a sonorous "Atishoooo!"

6 3

"Don't go looking for sympathy!" laughs a now jovial Romu-

ald. "You had that coming to you. What a lark - catching your

pal's cold!"

Vigorously shaking hands with Aloysius Swann, who has to rush

off to his commissariat, Ottavio Ottaviani hails a taxi to go to

Longchamp, which today, and Paris's ominous political situation

notwithstanding, holds its annual Grand Prix du Touring-Club,

an arduous handicap that will award its victor with not just a

gold trophy but a million francs, or so it's said, a donation from

a racing-mad nabob. And, with tout-Paris jostiing Paris tout, all

go parading through Longchamp's lavish paddocks.

Most conspicuous by far is Italy's top film star, Amanda von

Comodoro-Rivadavia, soon to fly out to Hollywood to sign a

six-million-dollar contract with Francis Ford Coppola for a tril-

ogy of Mafia dramas with Marlon Brando and A1 Pacino. Vol-

uptuous Amanda is clad (o sancta simplicitas) in a pair of bouffant

pink slacks as billowy as a Turkish Ottoman's, a coral polo shirt,

a bright crimson cardigan, an ivory sash, a maroon scarf, a shock-

ing pink mink coat, ruby stockings, a damask muff and purplish

bootikins. Accompanying this lurid apparition is Urbain d'Agos-

tino (inamorato or simply sugar daddy, who knows?), sporting

a lacy jabot, an Ungaro tail coat with a Mao collar, a top hat and

an ambassadorial gold chain. And milling around, with much

aristocratic ado, is a host of Maharajahs and moguls, Kronprinz,

Paladins and Hospodars, pillars all of Who's Who.

Grooms, spivs and turf officials stroll to and fro; at a kiosk a

young lad is shouting "Paris-Turf. Git your Paris-Turf. "; touts offload dubious dps and long columns start forming in front of

casinos and gambling halls.

Having sought him high and low among this cosmopolitan

crowd, Ottaviani at last finds Amaury Conson sitting on a stair-

way with Olga, a vision of Pariso-colonial chic in a viridian Arab

tunic.

Through a pair of binoculars, Amaury is scrutinising Long-

6 4

champ's world-famous track lap by lap, practically inch by inch:

"I think that ground is just a bit too soft."

A boorish individual standing at his right affirms (though, in

truth, nobody had sought his opinion) that Conson is a total

ignoramus on track sports. Amaury starts blushing furiously but

backs off from, so to say, standing his own ground. And, in

actual fact, Longchamp had not known a track so icy and of such

volatility: no rainfall for a month or so, no mist hanging about,

but a hard, nippy frost all around.

"Why hasn't Whisky 10 shown up?" asks Olga, squinting

through Amaury's binoculars.

"It's dropping out. It was just this instant broadcast on a

Tannoy."

"Why?"

"Nobody knows."

"So why stay on?" murmurs a thoroughly downcast Ottaviani.

"Olga wants to know how it turns out."

"You said it!" laughs Olga. "I put 25 francs on Scribouillard."

Out of 26 original nominations, only 25 now stand at Long-

champ's starting-post, Whisky 10 (No. 5) having withdrawn.

Initially, Whisky 10 was thought a cinch to win, although, sur-

prisingly, at official odds of 18 to 1. With it scratching, most

touts had a good opinion of Scribouillard III; Schola Cantorum,

a young Anglo-Norman colt out of Assurbanipal; Scapin, a roan

that had won at Chantilly in March (Grand Prix Brillat-Savarin);

Scarborough, a "dilly of a filly", as word had it, with all-black

hair and a trio of gold cups at Ascot; Capharnaum, a mount that

was, though, slightly short in its forward limbs; and, finally, Divin

Marquis, an occasionally moody kind of nag that wasn't tops in

anybody's book but had a habit of starting slowly and rapidly

gaining ground.

Riding Scribouillard, Saint-Martin - Paris's Sir Gordon

Richards - gallops off to an ovation from his faithful public, only

to fall flat on his back at Longchamp's notorious Mill Brook. So

it's Capharnaum that wins, just nosing out Divin Marquis.

6 5

"In my opinion," says Amaury, "Hassan Ibn Abbou is a bit of

a fraud. Has today taught us anything at all?"

Abandoning Longchamp to its aficionados, its huntin', shootin',

fishin' and racin' buffs, Amaury boards a Paris-bound bus along

with his two companions. And it occurs to him that Whisky 10's

withdrawal might still throw light on Vowl's abduction.

"Just 3 days ago you had 3 odds-on nominations; but, with

Whisky scratching and Scribouillard stumbling, Capharnaiim

won!"

"It sort of puts you in mind of a whodunit, don't you think,"

says Olga.

"No," says Amaury: "of an April Fool's Day hoax."

"No," says Ottaviani: "of a Dick Francis."

Our trio strolls into a bar, hoping to drown its frustration in

a round or two of cocktails. Through this bar wafts a languorous

aroma of amaryllis. Stirring a dry Martini, Olga starts painfully,

almost inaudibly, confiding in Conson and Ottaviani:

"If only I'd known - but how could anybody know? Anton

didn't look normal, but, whilst talking to him, it was hard to

grasp what was wrong with him. On occasion my darling would

pound his fists and cry out for . . . for just forty winks, that's all,

forty winks of blissful oblivion. Anton hadn't had a nap in two

months. Two months! His body was on a rack of pain, such pain,

his brain simply wouldn't function, its tribal drums wouldn't stop

pounding, pounding, pounding . . ."

Olga's soliloquy gradually sinks into a sigh as long and languid

as an autumnal chord from a violin.

"Mia carissima," coos Amaury, fondling Olga's hand with an

ardour that's slightly at odds with his usual avuncular joviality,

"if Anton hasn't actually . . . hasn't . . . oh, you know what

I'm trying to say, you'll probably find him in an alcoholic

stupor!"

"Lo giuroV says a martial (and cod Mozartian) Ottavio.

"Do you mind!" sniffs Olga, with a toss of auburn curls.

6 6

It's Ottaviani's turn to sigh. "What I do mind is almost four

days of bloody hard graft with damn all to show for it."

"What about paying a call on Hassan Ibn Abbou now," is

Amaury's proposal, "and finding out what information awaits us

from him?"

Hassan Ibn Abbou owns a charming Louis XVIII villa on Paris's

ultra-chic Quai Branly. Knocking at its door, Amaury finds,

standing in front of him, a footman who fawningly asks him and

Ottaviani (Olga, still low in spirits, had thought to turn in) into

a spacious formal drawing room.

"My companion and I wish to talk to M. Ibn Abbou," says

Amaury.

"If you wouldn't mind waiting, sirs, I shall inform him of your

arrival."

A young man, slightly too good-looking for comfort, sporting

that sort of oblong gold braid that is traditionally worn by a

Parisian flunky, and sashaying towards Amaury with an insinuat-

ing swing of his slim hips, asks him:

"Cocktails for two?"

Amaury opts for a whisky-and-soda, Ottaviani a glass of

Armagnac.

Just at that point, though, from an adjoining room, a clamor-

ous din bursts forth. What confusion! What hubbub! A mirror

smashing, a fist-fight, various dull thuds.

A bloodcurdling cry is drawn from Ibn Abbou: "No! No!

Aaaaargh!"

Amaury jumps out of his chair (and also practically out of his

skin). For a solitary instant, an agonisingly short instant, no

sound at all. And, in an instant following that, crying out again,

Ibn Abbou falls.

Amaury and Ottaviani quickly rush forward to assist him.

But, with a last, dying moan from Hassan Ibn Abbou, it's all

in vain.

Sticking in his back, and right up to its hilt, is a poniard with

6 7

a tip containing a poison known to bring about instant (and

fatal) paralysis.

What nobody could work out, though, was how Abbou's

assassin got away . . .

Finding this situation alarming, to put it mildly, and without

waiting for Ottaviani's authority, Amaury starts burrowing high





and low through Ibn Abbou's villa, finally chancing across a vault

that, as Abbou hadn't told anybody its combination, was got into

with calculation, cunning and a dash of chutzpah, and finding in

it that thick manuscript that Anton had thought to mail to him

only a month ago. It ought to contain 26 folios. Amaury counts

1, 2, 3 . . . to 25; naturally, fatally, a folio is missing. That's

right, you win! No. 5 it is!

So, complication piling on complication, a major conundrum

unfolds: that famous "solicitor who is so boorish as to light up

his cigar in a zoo" (but nobody had any proof that this particular

solicitor was in fact a boor) has a poniard in his back and Anton

Vowl is still missing.

That night, at about two o'clock, Amaury Conson strolls back

to his studio flat, Quai d'Anjou - and, till dawn, till cockcrow,

till first blush of morning, avid to find out just what's going on,

dutifully ploughs through Yowl's diary . . .

6 8

1

In which you will find a word or two about a burial

mound that brought glory to Trajan

ANTON VOWL'S DIARY

A Monday.

Call him Ishmail, and him Ahab, and it Moby Dick.

Tou, Ishmail, phthisic pawn, glutton for musty old manuscripts,

puny scribbling runt, martyr to a myriad of sulks, doldrums and

mulligrubs, you who lit out, packing just a smock, four shirts and a

cotton hanky in your bag, hurtling to salvation, to oblivion and to

mortality, you who saw, surging up in front of you by night, a Bassal-

ian mammoth, a paradigm of pallor and purity, a shining symbol of

immaculation, a giant Grampus coming up for air!

Away four springs, abroad four springs, braving whirlwind, whirl-

pool and typhoon, from Labrador to Fiji, from Jamaica to Alaska,

from Hawaii to Kamchatka.

Midnight, aboard ship, with Pip playing on his harmonica, Star-

buck, Daggoo, Flask, Stubb and Doughboy would sing:

To Ho Ho!

And a flask of rum!

A Nantuckian sailor brought immortality to a titanic combat oppos-

ing, triply, Captain Ahab and that giant Grampus, Moby Dick.

Moby Dick! Two words to chill a strong man's blood, to stir a ship's

rigging with a frisson of horror. Moby Dick! O animal of Astaroth!

Animal of Satan! Its big, blank, brilliant trunk, with its court of

69

birds flying noisily about it, now gulls, now cormorants, now a solitary,

forlorn albatross, would sculpt, so to say, a gigantic, gaping pit, a

curving concavity of nothing, a brimming bowl of air, from a rippling

rut of billows and furrows, would crimp any horizon with its foamy,

whitish dip, a fascinating, paralysing abyss, a milky chasm drawing

you in, drawing you down, down, down, down, flashing at you from

afar, flashing its virginal wrath, foaming at its mouth, a corridor

sucking you in, in, in, in to oblivion, a wat'ry quarry, a plunging

void drawing you forward, drawing you downward, drawing you

dizzily down into a miasma of hallucination, into a Styx as dark as

tar, a ghastly livid whirlpool, a Malstrom! Moby Dick! Only out of

sight of Ahab would anybody talk about it; a bos'n would blanch and

draw a pious cross in front of him; and many an ordinary sailor at

his work would murmur a dominus vobiscum.

And now Ahab would limp forward, supporting his body on an arti-

ficial limb sawn out of wood but as shiny as ivory, an imposing stump

that, many, many springs ago, his sailors had torn off a giant rorqual's

jaw, Ahab, a long and zigzagging furrow tracing its path through

his grizzly, stubbly hair, incising his brow and vanishing at his collar,

a drawn and haggard Ahab now looming out and booming out,

cursing that animal for having got away from him for nigh on 18

springs, cursing it and insulting it.

And now, to his ship's mainmast, Ahab would nail a gold

doubloon, promising it to any sailor who was first to sight his arch-

antagonist.

Night upon night, day upon day, at his ship's prow, numb with

cold, stiff as a rod in his captain's coat, hard as a rock, straight as a

mast, still as a post, and dumb too, not saying a word, not showing

any hint of a human soul, cold as a carcass, but boiling inwardly

with an inhuman wrath, Ahab would stand out, stark and gaunt, a

rumbling volcano, an imploding storm, a still point in a turning

world, against a dark, cloudy horizon, raptly scrutinising it for a sign,

for any sign, of Moby Dick. Sirius would glow uncannily bright in a

starry night sky; and, on top of that mainmast, and akin to nothing

7 0

so much as a dot on an i, would glow, too, a livid halo infusing that

diabolic doubloon and its gold with a wan chiaroscuro.

Ahab's circumnavigation would last four springs. For four long

springs his valiant and foolhardy craft would roam, rolling uncon-

trollably, pitching and tossing, tacking from north to south, from

south to north, combing Triton's wavy, curling hair, labouring now

in August warmth, now in April chill.

It wasAhab who first saw Moby Dick. It was a bright, sunny morning,

without wind or cloud, with an Atlantic as flat as a rug, as limpid

as a looking-glass. Milky-whitish against a lapis-lazuli horizon, Moby

Dick was puffing and blowing, its back forming a foggy, snowy mount

for a flock of birds circling around it.

But first a lull, an almost subliminal instant of tranquil immobility.

Just six furlongs off from Ahab's ship Moby Dick lay: now drifting, a

numinous animal, a symbol of calm awaiting its own storm, fragrant

with a throat-catching aroma, an aroma of purity, of infinity; now,

rising out of that cold, mirrory Atlantic, a lustral halo imbuing all

around it with a virginal glow. Not a sound, not an angry word. Not

a man stirring, as though brought to a standstill by all this calm and

radiancy, as though swaying languidly in vapours of adoration rising

up out of that glassy main, out of that dawning day.

O harmony, total unison, absolution! For an instant, oblivion holds

back, draws back, as though waiting for this snowy Himalaya, this

giant Grampus, to grant absolution to Starbuck, to Pip, to Ishmail

and Ahab.

With burning brow and twisting, hunching, horrifying body, long

did Ahab stand, staring into a void, saying nary a word, only sobbing

- sobbing and shaking.

"Moby Dick! Moby Dick!" was his final, fulminating cry. "Now,

all of you, into a boat!"

Daggoo found his crinkly buckskin chaps handy as a strop for his

harpoon, honing its point till it was as sharp as a razor.



* * *

71

It was an assault that was to last four days, four long days of appalling

conditions and appalling collisions, a furious tug of war with 26 sailors

putting up a prodigious fight, attacking that Bassalian titan, attack-

ing it again and again, puncturing its invincibility, implanting in

it, again and again, a harpoon as sharp as a bistoury, thrusting that

harpoon in right up to its shaft, to its crossbar, whilst Moby Dick

would roar and flail about in pain; but also whilst (with razor-sharp

barbs slicing through its body, with hooks viciously clutching at its skin,

ripping it up into narrow, bloody strips, flaying it, raising its wrath

to a foaming pitch by scratching long furrows along its shiny back) it

unflinchingly stood up to its assailants, butting, upturning and sink-

ing boat upon boat, till it too would sink in its turn, vanishing abruptly

into a turbid, now darkly crimson Atlantic.

But, that night, confronting Ahab aboard his ship, capsizing its

prow, Moby Dick split it in two with a solitary blow. Although, in a

last spasm of fury, Ahab slung his harpoon in midair, to his horror

its cord, twisting back, spun about his own body. Moby Dick, swirling

around, now swam straight for him.

"Till my dying day your blood is all I shall thirst for!" was Ahab's

cry. "From my Stygian limbo I shall assail you! In my abomination

I shall spit on you, spit on you, accurs'd Grampus, animal accurs'd

till Doomsday!"

His own giddily spinning harpoon snagging him, causing him to

thrash about in agony, Ahab's fall was nigh; and, soaring upwards,

Moby Dick caught him on its back and sank out of sight.

All around, yawning in mid-Atlantic, was a livid chasm, a colossal

canyon, a whirlpool sucking down into its foaming spiral, now a sailor's

body, now a harpoon cast in vain, now a capsizing boat, and now, at

last, Ahab's own forlorn ship which its captain's damnation was turn-

ing into a floating coffin . . .

Apocalypsis cum figuris: as always, though, a survivor will hold out,

a Jonah who will claim that, on that day, his damnation, his oblivion,

72

was writ in plain sight in a Grampus's blank iris - blank, blank,

blank, as a tabula rasa, as a void!

Ah, Moby Dick! Ah, moody Bic!

Almost all tout-Paris turns out to mourn Hassan Ibn Abbou's

passing and accompany his coffin to its burial ground - or so

you might think from a column of VIPs so long it holds up traffic

for two hours from Quai Branly to Faubourg Saint-Martin. As

conspicuous in this as in any crowd, Amanda von Comodoro-

Rivadavia stands apart, chatting to Baron Urbain d'Agostino.

Olga sobs unconsolably. Ottaviani is just as surly as usual.

Amaury Conson, still grasping at straws, still struggling to throw

an inkling of light on Anton's "Moby Dick", is lost in his

thoughts.

Hassan Ibn Abbou's tomb is in a columbarium in Antony, a

suburb of Paris; and wholly charming it is, too, juxtaposing trans-

lucid quartz with onyx as blindingly brilliant as a South African

diamond, built up from a solid brass block with incrustations of

iridium and bristling with a galaxy of official cordons and chains,

of ribands, garlands and stars, posthumous honours by which

many a king, many a maharajah, sought publicly to display an

unconditional admiration for Ibn Abbou - Croix du Combattant,

Victoria Cross, Nichan Iftikhar, Ours Royal du Labrador and

Grand'Croix du Python Pontifical.

Six orators in all hold forth. First, Fran^ois-Armand d'Arson-

val, in his capacity as official administrator of a Civic Tribunal

that Hassan had thought out from A to Z; following him, and

acting for a major Anglo-Iranian bank, Victor, Baron d'Aiguillon

(no vulgar factotum, Hassan was for long his loyal right-hand

man); an Imam from Agadir who lauds his patriotism, his nation-

alistic passion for Morocco; Lord Gadsby V. Wright (Hassan

was his assistant at Oxford and by vigorous string-pulling would

obtain his nomination as Auctor Honoris Causa), who charms

his auditors with an account — so high-flown, so orotund, it's

almost Johnsonian - of his confidant's curriculum studiorum; and

73

Raymond Q. Knowall, who talks of Hassan's spasmodic though

always cordial association with OuLiPo.

Finally it's Carcopino's turn, Carcopino, a luminary of I'lnsti-

tut, that mortuary of Immortals on Paris's Quai Conti, who starts:

"Six springs ago Hassan Ibn Abbou won a uninominal 3-ballot

poll by 25 out of 26, a poll that was to stir up a commotion for

a day or two - but, as I say, voting in favour of Hassan Ibn

Abbou was practically unanimous, so our organisation thought

to appoint him to a subcommission of PC-IMAM (Patrimonial

Corpus of Inscriptions in Morocco's Adas Mountains), a fairly

lowly position but which had its own distinction, won by Hassan

on account of his polymathic study of an almost unknown tumu-

lus (and nobody who did know it could work out its import)

from an oppidum civium romanorum which a scholar from Munich,

a Judaist in flight from Austria's A nschluss, had found in diggings

at Thugga (or, as it's nowadays known, Dougga). It's said that

it withstood many attacks by Jugurtha, it's said that Juba Afri-

canus 'did pass a night by it' ( Titus Livius dixit) and that Trajan

had a villa built on it for Adrianus, his son by adoption."

Carcopino, though, citing Piganiol's biography, affirms that

this is only a rumour.

Notwithstanding that Trajan has nothing much to do with

Hassan Ibn Abbou, a handful of his auditors warmly applaud.

For, although talking in a low, unsonorous, almost soporific mur-

mur, our Immortal knows how to grip his public with his oratory.

Now, totally impromptu, Carcopino starts painting a vivid

word-portrait of his companion. "Hassan Ibn Abbou was tragic-

ally cut down in his maturity, and his passing is a loss not only

to that Institut for which I am proud to talk today but also, most

profoundly, to our Nation — and it's a loss not only of a man, of

a scholar, but also of his vast scholarship and, which is just as

important, his unfailing practical know-how. For nobody could

match Hassan's capacity for conciliating romanisation and bar-

barisation, for coming to grips with an ambiguous if highly

significant association linking two outwardly opposing notions,

7 4

so constituting, so instituting, an insight out of which, poor

orphan as it is on this tragic day of days, will unfold, by that

important, nay, by that paramount, innovation of Hassan Ibn

Abbou's, will unfold, I say, a truly dazzling tomorrow. Faith -

that is what all of us now must put our trust in, faith in that

lowly grain that Hassan Ibn Abbou was first to plant, that acorn

of thought that will grow into an oak and thus grant us, and for

always, immunity from hardship," Carcopino says in conclusion,

his vocal chords almost cracking, his auditors sympathising with

him, sobbing along with him, sharing his pain, won round by

his oratorical skills and not daring to applaud.

To Amaury Conson's disgust, though, a man standing not far

off is actually smiling. But this individual, tall, of stocky build

and sporting a chic raglan coat, cut as only British tailors know

how, has a candid, jovial and, in a word, chummy look about

him, oozing "warmth and charmth" (to borrow a famous

Goldwynism), that soon disarms him. Amaury walks up to him

and asks point-blank:

"Pardon my intrusion, but may I know what's amusing you?"

"If you must know, I'm smiling at an omission in his oration

that I find most significant."

"An omission?" gasps Amaury, who cannot mask his agitation.

"About six months ago, for his CNRS Commission Ph.D.,

Hassan Ibn Abbou was author of a succinct but, in my own

opinion, slipshod monograph on jus latinum, which is to say,

Latin law, a topic that our Moroccan, notwithstanding his lack

of rigour on this occasion, could claim to know backwards. This

monograph of his sought to focus on a particular point, a point

so baffling it had thrown all you highbrows into a tizzy: to wit,

what obligation, if any, bound a city, a town or a rural district

to allow its population (rustics, occasionally shopfolk) a status

abjuring any kind of distinction that had, ipso facto, a Roman

outrank a Saharan nomad? Although not wholly satisfactory,

notably in its conclusions, his work, confirming Marc

Bloch's intuition vis-a-vis Donjon-Vassal's study, Mauss's on

75

Chaman-Tribu unification and also Chomsky's on that famous

Insignificant-Significant junction, was ironclad proof that no such

obligation was binding (it was at most an option among many),

thus proving in its turn that any analysis (from a soi-disant dog-

matic notion of Law) of a substratum which would contain colon-

isation, romanisation or barbarisation was automatically illusory.

It was, thus, important to avoid any sort of a priori thinking and,

most of all, to distinguish what about it was truly infrastructural.

It was a paradoxical situation: Karl Marx an Immortal! Nobody

thought to find such a day coming to pass. But a majority of

jurors had no difficulty swallowing it, and it was only Carcopino

(known at Quai Conti as Cola Pinada or Copacabana) who was

said to cry out 'Idiot! Idiot! Idiot!'"

"But what about that oration?" murmurs Amaury.

"I know. I admit I found that surprising. I must say I thought

our Immortal would slip in a handful of cryptic allusions to it.

But not at all!"

"Shhh!" says Olga, who has stood apart from this discussion.

"It's winding up now."

This man formally doffs his panama, that man his shako, a third

his homburg. An old fogy of an admiral, obviously gaga, starts

saluting nobody in particular. Ottaviani bashfully sniffs into his

cotton hanky. Olga sobs again. Paparazzi rush about, snapping

away at Amanda von Comodoro-Rivadavia who, with pinpoint

timing, falls into a swoon in Urbain d'Agostino's awaiting arms.

Now, first, a sacristan in a bright canary cappa magna and

waving a solid gold thingamajig . . . urn, you know, that sprink-

ling thing, walks forward; following him, a trio of chaplains

brandishing a slightly shopworn crucifix with its kitschy canopy

of swishily rusding frills; finally six human caryatids hoisting up

a mahogany coffin by its shiny brass knobs.

A clumsy pratfall - and Hassan's coffin slips, falls, its lid swings

up. Holy Christmas! No Hassan Ibn Abbou!



* * *

7 6

Talk of kicking up a row! What with diplomats accusing cops,

cops accusing Matignon, Matignon accusing Maison Roblot,

Maison Roblot accusing Maison Borniol, Maison Borniol

accusing - try to work this out if you can - Foch Hospital,

Foch Hospital accusing Carcopino, Carcopino accusing Baron

d'Aiguillon's Anglo-Iranian Bank and that bank accusing Pompi-

dou, Pompidou compromising Giscard, Giscard blaming Papon,

Papon in his turn lodging a strong complaint against Foccard

. . . it's a daisy-chain that could go on ad infinitum!

"I can't stand it!" says Ottavio Ottaviani. "First Ibn Barka,

now Ibn Hassan. Ibn forbid a third such calamity!"

It's a difficult job hushing up such a murky affair, but within

days a curtain of fog and iron, as Winston Churchill would say,

is drawn down tight. Nobody claims to know anything at all of

Anton Vowl's abduction - if abduction it was. And now, simi-

larly, nobody claims to know anything at all of Hassan Ibn

Abbou's body-snatching.

7 7

III

DOUGLAS HAIG

C L I F F O R D

10

In which an amazing thing occurs to an unwary

basso profundo

A day or two on - with, for company, that curious individual

who had had such an illuminating talk with him at Hassan Ibn

Abbou's burial - Amaury Conson pays a call on Olga who, laid

low with both a sniffly cold and a crippling bout of lumbago, is

vacationing in a small family manor at Azincourt.

It's by train that our two protagonists go first to Arras.

"In days of old," says Amaury's companion in a nostalgic drawl,

"if you had an inclination, say, or an obligation, to go to Dinard

or Pornic, Arras or Cambrai, your only option was to climb into

a mail coach, usually a wobbly old jalopy. As your trip would

last from four to six days, you would try to ward off monotony

by chatting to your coachman, taking an occasional sip of brandy

from a flask, skimming through a radical tract, airing your

opinion on this, that and virtually anything you could think of,

talking shop, narrating an amusing play by Sardou and holding

forth on a cutthroat's trial that had all Paris in its grip (notwith-

standing his prodigious oratorical skills, you'd attack this

cutthroat's QC, who, disparaging all his antagonist's accusations,

alibis and affidavits as a put-up job, sought to disclaim, in toto,

what was almost cast-iron proof of guilt and also vilify a poor,

law-abiding pharmacist from whom our assassin had bought his

poison, laudanum; you'd find fault with this or that juror; nor

had that shifty procurator struck you as wholly trustworthy). You

would gratify your company with ironic bon mots on political

topics, wittily puncturing Du Paty du Clam's corruption, as also

8 1

Cassagnac's, Drumont's and Mac-Mahon's. You would sing that

"Chanson du Tourlouru" that Paulin or Bach was immortalising

in Paris's most modish nightclubs and music halls. You would

vigorously affirm your unconditional admiration for Rostand's

Cyrano or Sarah as I'Aiglon. Finally, you'd trot out a dirty story or two, about a maharajah and a cancan girl, or a vicar and a

choirboy, giving your auditors a good laugh whilst your mail

coach would roll on and on till dusk. At nightfall you would sup

in a charming rural inn. For a paltry six francs you'd tuck into

fish or crab, lamb or mutton, washing it all down with a good

strong Burgundy or a Latour-Marcillac, a Musigny or a Pom-

mard, gorging and carousing away till you'd had a skinful! Upon

which you would go for a long walk or, as you'd no doubt

call it in your hoity-toity fashion, a postprandial constitutional,

through a public park with stout oaks and spindly acacias and

tall, thin pawlonias, with marbly malls and lush and languid

lawns. You'd sip a Curasao, a maraschino or a boiling hot toddy.

You'd play a hand of whist or pharaoh. Or you might play a

round of billiards and win a franc or two from a local rustic.

And, gradually, you'd yawn and start to think about shambling

upstairs to your room. First, though, you'd drift into a chintzy

front room, in which you might obtain, gratis, a chocolat au kirsch,

a dainty bit of ribbon or a tiny flask of Armagnac. You'd find a

buxom maid to carry off with you up to your room and, having

had your filthy fun with this bit of crackling, you'd nod off at

last, all in."

"Uh huh," sighs Amaury, "nowadays you go by train. It's rapid,

but totally lacking in chic."

Concurring with this opinion, his companion draws out of

a bag on his lap a curious cardboard box full of oblong

cigars.

"A brazza?"

"I won't say no," says Amaury. "A propos, I still don't know what I'm to call you."

"Arthur Wilburg Savorgnan," says his companion.

8 2

"Is that so?" murmurs Amaury, caught short, but instantly

adding, "I'm Amaury Conson."

"Amaury Conson! Hadn't you a son who . .

Amaury abruptly cuts in. "I had six sons. All now, alas, food

for worms. All, that is, b u t - "

"Yvon!"

"That's right! But how do you know?"

Savorgnan grins. "Don't worry. You'll soon know my story.

What you should know now is that I too was a confidant of

Anton Vowl. But as I'm British, living at Oakwood, not far from

Oxford, I hardly saw him from month to month. That said,

though, Vowl was willing to talk about his condition, claiming,

as all of you know, that his dying day was at hand. Nobody took

him at his word — no, not Olga, not Hassan, not you, and not,

I'm sorry to say, yours truly. But, six days ago, Hassan rang up

and I said I'd discuss it all with him. As soon as I got to Paris,

alas, I was told of his dying . . ."

"But did you work out what that postscript of his was trying

to say to us?"

"No, but in my opinion it's wrong of us to try construing

it word for word. Was 'a solicitor so boorish as to light up his

cigar in a zoo' alluding to Hassan Ibn Abbou? I don't think

so, and you know why? (a) Vowl didn't know Hassan was a

solicitor; (b) that word 'boorish' didn't apply to him at all; and

(c) you'd catch him smoking at most two Havanas in six

months."

"Hmm. What you say has a ring of truth about it, particularly,"

adds Amaury, "as Hassan, with that addiction of his to marga-

ritas, had no strong liking for whisky."

"That's right. In addition, Hassan was much too fond of his

local Jardin d'Acclimatation to think of going to a zoo."

"So why that odd postscript?"

"I thought at first it was a phony. My hunch, now, is that it

was his only option: Anton had to go out on a full stop, so to

say. Possibly, his wish was to transmit a signal to us that wasn't

8 3

so ambiguous; but, not having such a pithy communication at

his disposal. . ."

"Nothing is as cryptic as a void," murmurs Amaury.

Arthur Wilburg Savorgnan starts. "Why do you say that?"

"I saw it in his diary. I should say, I finally got it through my

skull that Hassan had always said that. Which is why," Amaury

adds, "I'm taking you to Azincourt to visit Olga."

Not a word is said from that point onwards. Savorgnan puffs on

his brazza and Amaury, burrowing into a book bought at a station

kiosk, a long and circuitous saga about an association of major

con artists, its liquidation, gradual slump, crash and bankruptcy,

wholly fails to grasp that staring at him, in print, is a solution to

that conundrum that is haunting him, consuming him . . .

His train briskly chugs on, making its dining-car chairs rock

to and fro. An undulating rural panorama, with a solitary plough-

man raking his patch of land from a shiny tractor, bowls along

backwards as if on its way back to Paris. Now both train and

panorama start grinding to a halt, giving way to a drab, slummy

suburb, a draughty platform, an array of hangars, a bus stop and

a roundabout.

Amaury and Savorgnan go by coach from Arras to Aubigny -

a slowcoach of a coach crawling along at 20 mph maximum -

and on foot to Azincourt (or, archaically, Agincourt, that

ignominious blot and bloodstain on our military history).

A hillock, curving as unassumingly as in a child's drawing and

smiling at visitors with an aroma so piquant, so vividly autumnal,

it cannot but charm a discriminating nostril, an intoxicating cock-

tail of aromas, in fact, both cordial and miasmal, of myosotis

palustris, damp wood, wild mushrooms and rotting humus - this

hillock, I say, stands just in front of Olga's sanctuary, a charming

old manor that Francois Daunou had built for his family circa

1800.

Whilst sycophantically traditionalist masons sought to copy

8 4

Hardouin-Mansard's Grand Trianon, constituting as it did a

summit, a paragon, of crypto-classicism, Soufflot, wading across

a flock of Rubicons with that nonchalant aplomb, that faindy

lunatic audacity, that was to bring him such popular acclaim,

thought to submit to his august patron a ground plan of rococo

inspiration: which is to say, portals with flying ramparts, mock-

Tudor moldings, tympanums and astragals, plus (this was what

was truly innovatory) a floridly imposing wing flanking it with

its own gothic quad.

It was, alas, a Rubicon too far. For four days Daunou would

squint this way and that at Soufflot's rough drafts, finally mur-

muring, "I'll say this for it, it's . . . original" and giving him, for

his pains, a kick in his hind parts. To avoid a fatal scalping from

M. Guillotin's sharp razor, Soufflot had to fly to Lyon clad as a

pastrycook.

A downcast Daunou saw Chalgrin, Vignon, Potain and Hit-

torf, all of whom said no, and at last struck gold with an unknown

quantity, Francois Tilman Suys, a Dutchman. Placing abundant

funds at Suys's disposal, Daunou told him to follow nobody's

inspiration but his own. And, as nobody is as rascally as a

Dutchman, so much hard cash was thrown away on this folly -

a colonial pavilion with a rhomboid roof, its supporting arch

inlaid with ugly (or, if not ugly, vulgar) frostwork - that, with

its finishing touch, Daunou was without a brass farthing. With

just two months of occupation, it was put up for auction. A

shady individual from Audruicq bought it for a song, installing

first of all a stud farm and, during that short outburst of optimism

brought about by victory at Wagram, a casino in which you could

find McDonald, Soult, Duroc, Caulaincourt, Savary, Junot and

Oudinot playing whist and baccarat. (This crook, it's said, got

away with a cool million.) At that point it was won off him at

cards by a Louis-Philippard cop, who was fond of playing host

to an unsavoury crowd of drunks, thugs and informants, until

succumbing to a fatal stab wound during a notably riotous orgy.

As this cop had no offspring to hand it on to in his will, his

8 5

manor, soon going to wrack and ruin from casual looting, would

turn into a lair of tramps, criminals, vagrants and ruffians.

In April 1918 a British major, Augustus B. Clifford, advancing

with his battalion towards no-man's-land and putting his troops

up in it for a night, took a liking to this quaint, rundown manor.

In 1924, now of Canadian nationality and occupying a post as

a consular administrator in Frankfurt, Clifford bought Azincourt

for his family, living in it on and off whilst pursuing his diplo-

matic obligations. Through his caring disposition as an occupant,

along with his polish and discrimination as a man, its roof, which

was caving in, was gradually brought back to mint condition; its

walls had a thorough scrubbing down; oil, and not coal, was

burnt; and a spacious parkland was laid out.

Augustus B. Clifford had a son, naming him Douglas Haig in

honour of that grand old warrior, his victorious commandant at

Douaumont.

A charming child, Douglas Haig (or Haig tout court, for that

was how his doting papa always thought of him) had an idyllic

infancy at Azincourt, filling it with his boyish whoops, playing

blind man's buff on its soft, cottony lawn, climbing its acacias,

giving food to a fish, a young carp, that swam about in a small

pond, taming it not without difficulty, baiting it with crumbs,

worms, wasps, moths, a gadfly or two and an occasional crocus.

It would swarm up at his approach, at his whistling or murmuring

call of "Jonah! Jonah!".

Haig had a lot of chums, most living in town and mad about

sport - football and rugby, mainly, but also organising amusing

trials by bow-and-arrow and going on long cross-country walking

tours. Coming back from such jaunts, his companions would find

his nanny waiting with a tray of muffins and fruit tarts and cups

of hot cocoa. So Augustus's manor was an oasis of calm and

good humour, of high jinks and high spirits. It was, in short, a

kind of Arcadia.

8 6

At 18, having sat his school finals, Augustus's son found his

vocation: basso profundo. Haig, though not what you would

call a prodigy, had a natural vocal gift; and, unconscionably fond

of singing, was willing to work long and hard at honing his skills,

studying composition at Paris's Schola Cantorum. Fricsay taught

him plain song, Solti canon, von Karajan tutti and Krips har-

mony. Sir Adrian Boult sat in on his first public audition, at 19,

in Turin's Carignano Hall. Haig sang "Unto Us a Child Is Born",

a madrigal by Ottavio Rinucinni and, to finish with, a trio of

arias from Aida. Boult was wholly won round, writing a word

of introduction to Karl Bohm, who was staging II dissoluto punito

ossiallDon Giovanni at Urbino's "Musical May". Bohm had Haig

sing for him, found him vocally convincing if occasionally shrill

in a high pitch and, handing him a copy of Mozart's composition,

told him to study it for a forthcoming production.

Placing his gifts in Karl Bohm's firm but faithful hands, Haig

was soon gaining ground. "Your fortissimo is possibly too lan-

guid," Bohm would admonish him on occasion, or "You should

attack Altra brama quaggiu with total rigour and accuracy. Don't

distort it by howling or roaring. It has to flow forth without any

vibrato." Mostly, though, his pupil brought him satisfaction.

That spring, on a boiling hot day, strolling along a corridor

in Urbino's ducal palazzo (visitors to which would habitually find

him practising sol-fa of a morning just as his idol, Caruso, had),

Haig ran into Olga Mavrokhordatos, a soprano whom Bohm

had cast as Donna Anna, and took an instant liking (I should

say, loving) to that world-famous diva. Nor did his passion fall

on stony ground: it took him just two days to obtain Olga's

blushing accord and to marry his inamorata in San Marino. A

municipal official, vainly stifling a yawn, for it was going on

midnight, saw it as his duty to trot out a string of hoary old

truisms on conjugal rights and obligations. As a consolation,

though, on that indigo night, from an imposing rampart on San

Marino's main plaza, and all night through until first faint flush

of dawn, soft strains and . paradisiacal chords would drift down,

8 7

music from I Virtuosi di Roma, rigadoons and madrigals, arias,

rondos and sinfonias, music to charm an animal with two backs.

0 blissful instant! O Calm! A nocturnal violin singing a song

as candid and natural as a lark's, and an alto, and an organist's

sonorous clarion - and Haig advancing slowly, his hand tighdy

clasping Olga's.

1 know that you too, you, my ghostly collaborator, hanging

on my words, would wish it all to work out satisfactorily, with

Douglas Haig Clifford marrying Olga Mavrokhordatos, with

both Douglas and his Olga knowing only harmony and connubial

bliss, "a spiritual coupling of two souls" (as Jonson put it), and

with Olga giving birth to 26 sons, all surviving into full maturity.

Alas, no, that's asking too much! I cannot hold out any such

possibility of absolution. Nor will God grant Douglas Haig a

pardon. Infusing, always and infallibly, that cryptic signal that I

am trying, and will go on trying, ad infinitum if I must, to clarify,

Damnation will do with Haig what it has to do - with just four

days to go till that swan song of his which, sung in Urbino,

would link up, 20 springs on, with Anton Vowl's kidnapping

and Hassan Ibn Abbou's assassination . . .

To transform him into an apparition, into that ghoulish Com-

mandant who, Uomo di sasso, Uomo bianco, brings Mozart's

drammagiocoso to its climax, Karl Bohm actually thought to wrap

Haig in a sculptor's mould with an iron collar, almost causing

him to swoon. A broad slit was cut through this mould, giving

his singing a rich bass intonation without in any way muffling

it. Bohm, happy with such an acoustical idiosyncrasy, told him,

"In fact, it's akin to having a rotting carcass posthumously cursing

us from within his coffin." Bohm was right; alas, nobody could

know just how right. For (and how such a thing could occur,

nobody would say), as a pallid Haig was put into his mould, and

it was shut tight, and laid on thick with stucco, totally confining

him, Bohm, aghast, saw that nobody had put slits in for him to

look through. But Bohm also saw no point in panicking, for it

8 8

was just at that instant that Don Juan commands his flunky to

ask Haig (in his capacity, naturally, as Mozart's Commandant)

to lunch with him.

First, Haig was drawn up on a sling. So far, so good. From

that point on, though, bad luck would dog his path.

All of you know Don Giovanni's closing bars of music:

Giovanni sings: ". . . Grido indiavolato . . ."

And his flunky (who, in this production, was sung by van

Dam): " Ah sip/nor . . . Uuom di sasso . . . Uuomo bianco . . . Ah

padron . . . Tum-ti-tum . . ."

This was Haig's prompt and van Dam was waiting for him to

walk forward, coming into sight as Bohm had his violinists play

a closing, fading chord; and, advancing again to allow his public

to savour his imposing physical proportions, to launch into his

famous "Dow Giovanni . . . m'invitasti".

But Haig was to wait an instant too long. On his approaching

Don Juan, van Dam haltingly sang "Ah Padron . . . Siam tutti

morti" . . . Haig, looking around him in confusion, as though

slowly going adrift, took fright, turning crazily this way and that,

spinning about as a robot or a mutant might run amok and loudly

crying out "mi mi mi mi mi" . . . At which point our basso lost

all control, stubbing his foot on a column, tripping up, swaying

and falling - falling as straight and stiff as a mast, as a baobab

adroidy cut in half. With his fall making a loud thud, its shock

so startling that, as though imitating Humpty Dumpty tumbling

off his wall, Haig's mould split from top to bottom, a cry of

horror shook that auditorium to its foundations, from its balcony

to its stalls, and from its gods to its royal box. A long furrow,

ashy in colour, zigzagging from his foot to his skull, ran through

that mould, that stucco trap in which poor Haig was caught,

Assuring it with tiny sharp cracks, through which, as in a crumb-

ling dam, purplish blood would start to spurt and spout till,

finally, stomach-turningly, gushing forth.

Using a blowtorch, a jack and an automatic drill, unhitching

him as you might pluck a rotting pit, say, from an inhuman fruit,

8 9

Bohm's assistants got Haig out and saw, first of all, on his body,

a grisly, ashy furrow similar to that on his mould, also running

from top to bottom and zigzagging down his torso as a bolt of

lightning from Thor might flash across a lurid Nordic sky. And

though Haig's own doctor would insist on carrying out an

autopsy, nobody could work out any natural grounds for his

dying in this way . . .

Why, nobody could say, but Augustus B. Clifford was also at

Urbino's "Musical May". And, that night, following his son's

tragic mishap, Clifford slunk into a local hospital — in which

Haig's body was laid out - took it away with him by swaddling

it in a shroud and carrying it out by a back door, bought a

Hispano-Suiza sports car and, driving all night, all day and all

night again, as frantically as a madman, as fast and furious as a

champion at Indianapolis or Brands Hatch, got to Azincourt. A

local myth has it that Clifford actually had his son's body burnt;

probably, though, Haig is now lying in his coffin, possibly

in that shady nook of parkland on which, as it's also said,

grass grows in particularly thick clumps and in a particularly

intriguing form, almost as though a topiarist had had a hand in

shaping it: that of a harpoon with 3 prongs or a hand with 3

digits, Satan's diabolical sign such as might initial a Faustian

contract.

Augustus, whom many local townsfolk thought raving mad,

would go for months and months without quitting his mansion

at Azincourt and would hurl rocks at any infant straying into his

domain, any busybody hawking goods or any tramp asking for

alms at his door. A high wall was built around its grounds, which,

at night, it was said, would turn it into a prison, a sort of Spandau,

with its solitary, voluntary convict, who would now stay indoors

for good. You might, at most, find his maid in town buying a

ham or a pair of fatty lamb chops. But if you sought to chat up

this maid, who, of part-Iroquois origin, was known as "Squaw",

if you said, "So, Squaw, your boss, still off his nut?", Squaw

9 0

would shout back at you, "Sonofabitch!" and "Scumbag!",

two traditional Iroquois oaths.

And, as Squaw was an old judo pro, it wasn't politic to

insist.

Occasionally, too, with an ugly gap-tooth grin, Squaw would

add: "If boss good to Jonah, boss good man."

For it was known that Augustus, conscious of his son's mission,

would approach his pond at noon sharp, murmuring "Jonah,

Jonah!" Though Jonah was grown-up now, it always swam

upwards at his call; and Augustus would throw crumbs at it that

it would gulp down with obvious satisfaction.

It took Olga six springs to track down Augustus, who had only

caught sight of his gracious in-law for an instant. On Olga's initial

arrival at Azincourt, Squaw had instructions not to unlock its

door to this prima donna for whom Augustus's son had had such

a strong passion. But as things would work out, Augustus, taking

pity on Olga and also itching to satisfy a natural curiosity, would

start to thaw and gradually warm to this fascinating woman who

told him about holy matrimony with a man as romantic as his son,

a union brought, alas, to a tragically swift and abrupt conclusion.

Augustus in his turn would talk of Haig in his childhood,

giving scraps to Jonah, climbing acacias and playing blind

man's buff.

Taking a fancy to Azincourt, finding in it a tranquillity missing

in Paris - in which it was work, work, work all day long! - Olga

was soon paying it four visits a month, going for long walks

through its grounds, drinking fruit cocktails in a formal drawing

room from which Augustus had dustcloths vanish in honour of

his charming visitor. Following a light lunch, consisting of cold

cuts, salad and fruit, Olga, slumping on to a ravishing mahogany

sofa (still giving off vibrations from a torrid affair that La Grisi

had had on it with a Boyar and for which a youthful Augustus

had paid a tidy sum at an auction), Olga, I say, would stitch a

dainty rustic motif on a patchwork quilt, whilst Augustus, sitting

9 1

upright at his grand piano, would play a sonata by Albinoni,

Haydn or Auric. Occasionally, too, Olga sang a song by Brahms

or Schumann that would float out into a starry night sky.

9 2

10

Which will, I trust, gratify fanatics of Pindaric lyricism

Whilst, far off, a dog, an Alsatian or an Afghan hound, starts

howling mournfully, Amaury knocks at Olga's front door and

Clifford's maid soon unbolts it.

"Morning, Squaw," says a smiling Amaury, visibly savouring

such an unusual alias.

"Good day to you, Sir Amaury," says Squaw; "and good day

to you too, Sir Savorgnan."

Amaury, caught short, looks squintingly at Savorgnan.

"What's this? Do you also know Squaw?"

"Didn't it occur to you I might?"

"Why . . . no," admits Amaury.

"I told you, didn't I, and not all that long ago, whilst our train

was drawing into Arras, I told you that you'd soon know my

story in its totality. So now you know just how similar my curricu-

lum, so to say, is to yours: an unfailing aspiration uniting us

now as it always has and always will. Your information is my

information, your informants my informants, your companions

my companions - so it's not surprising, is it, that our paths should

finally cross as both of us scurry about on this cryptic pursuit of

ours..

"Similia similibus cumntur," a witty Amaury sums up.

"Contmria contmriis cumntur," a sardonic Savorgnan snaps

back.

Pointing indoors, Squaw buts in. "Lady Olga is waiting for

you."

9 3

Amaury and Savorgnan stroll into a stylish living room: two

nylon rugs of a lilyish purity, oval armchairs, a lamp (from China)

of such formal sophistication that, by comparison, Noguchi's

work would look almost naif, a divan as long as a bar in a

Hawaiian nightclub with big shiny vinyl cushions in Day-Glo

colours and, filling a wall from top to bottom, an Op Art church

window by Sartinuloc.

Olga is dozing in a hammock, a hand trailing daintily

floorwards. Amaury stoops to kiss it, and Savorgnan follows

suit.

"Cari amid" murmurs Olga with a languorous yawn, "I

know I can always count on you, both of you. Augustus

wants to say a word or two. Sound that gong, Amaury, will

you."

Picking up a small aluminium gong, Amaury whacks it, pro-

ducing a sound which, if a bit "off", has an oddly long-drawn-out

vibration.

Abruptly, as though by magic, Augustus B. Clifford is standing

in his own doorway. Clifford, a frail old fossil, wrinkly of brow,

frosty of hair, and having to cup his hand to catch what is

said to him, plods up to Savorgnan and puts his arms around

him:

"Wilburg, old chap, how do you do?"

"How do you do?" says Savorgnan with typical urbanity.

"How was your trip?"

"Oh, it wasn't too bad."

"No, not bad at all," adds Amaury, who, as usual, has to put

in his two bits' worth.

"Good, good," says Clifford, rubbing his hands. "Now sit

down, sit down, both of you."

Olga hands round a tray of fruit and fruit cocktails and fruit

crystals: fruit, only fruit, which our visitors dutifully swallow

without a word. In fact, nobody says anything at all. Savorgnan

coughs. Olga sighs.

9 4

"What all of you must do now," says Olga at last, "is pool

what you know about this quicksand that risks sucking us in as

though along a giant straw. It's my opinion, and yours too, I

know, that during this past month (which will finish today) just

too much damn bad luck - or, as Augustus would put it, a

disturbingly high ratio of affliction - has struck down two of our

companions. Now, apart from a handful of scraps, you still lack

information on Anton's abduction and Hassan's . . . passing

away." (Prim Olga was always loath to say that basic D-word

that for many in our civilisation is still a major taboo.) "But what

you do know, or think you know, is that at its crux is a con-

undrum worthy of a Sphinx and it is its signification that you

must try to grasp. Which is why, as I say, Augustus and I want

to join up with you by pooling our information and coordinating

our actions!"

"Your proposition is worth its avoirdupois in gold," says

Augustus.

"You can say that again!" says Savorgnan (no doubt in a malici-

ous allusion to Augustus's linguistic pomposity). "Probably you,

Olga, or you, Amaury, know a thing or two that I don't and

probably I know a thing or two that you don't and it's by closing

ranks that our horizons will roll back and a communal intuition

spring forth!"

Arthur Wilburg Savorgnan is a hard act to follow. Amaury

simply shouts, "Bravo!" And Squaw, approaching with a tray of

drinks, caps this with "Hip hip hooray!"

A toast.

Proposing to submit his contribution first, Amaury maintains

that it is, a priori, of particular import. This was a slighdy surpris-

ing tack for him to adopt, but it gains him his right to hold forth

first.

Amaury starts straight in without any banal small talk. "I'm

now familiar with most if not all of Anton Vowl's diary, in which

I found 5 or 6 allusions to a book, a work of fiction, which, it

claims, contains a solution to our conundrum. Anyway, I found

9 5

indications in it of why this book was so crucial for him, without

Anton actually giving anything away."

'That's right," says Savorgnan, "you might say our chum had

a gift for both showing and masking, both giving and taking

away."

"Larvati ibant obscuri sola sub nocta," murmurs Olga, who was,

as is obvious, no classical scholar.

'Thus," adds Amaury, tactfully ignoring Olga's Latin, "on

occasion it's Moby Dick or a postwar work by Thomas Mann or

a fiction by Isidro Parodi initially brought out in 1950 or so by

La Croix du Sud. But Vowl's diary also contains a quotation from

Kafka, an allusion to a 'McGufiin', to a King and on occasion

to Rimbaud. I found, in all of that, a point in common: an

apparition (if you'll allow my using such an oxymoron) of

a blank, a Void."

"A Void!" shouts Augustus B. Clifford, dropping his crystal

glass and spilling aquavit on his rug.

"A Void!" moans Olga, smashing a lamp in agitation.

"A Void!" roars Arthur Wilburg Savorgnan, swallowing half

his cigar.

"A Void!" brays Squaw in a shrill and jangling whinny, atomis-

ing a trio of matching mirrors.

"A Void, right, that's what I said," affirms Amaury: "it all turns

on a Void. But, by constantly writing about 'a Void', what do

you think Anton was alluding to?"

From a cupboard Augustus pulls out an album in foolscap

format bound in sharkskin.

"This is what our postman brought us from Anton a month

ago day for day."

Doing a rapid calculation, Amaury says:

"In short, just two days prior to his abduction."

"That's right. You won't find a word in it, though, but for

what I think you call a 'small ad' which Anton probably cut out

of his Figaro and stuck in."

Olga, Clifford and Savorgnan form a group around Amaury,

9 6

who starts scrutinising Anton's album. It consists of 26 folios,

all blank but for a solitary column, without any sort of illustration,

stuck on to folio No. 5, a column that Amaury runs through in

a faint murmur:

DOWN WITH OBSCURITY

(Homo w*sh*s wh*t*r th*n P*rs*l)

ANYTHING can look virginal, for It will wash

ANYTHING AT ALL: your pants, stockings, T-shirts,

your shifts, smocks and cardigans,

your saris and Arab burnous.

ANYTHING AT ALL: your cotton pillowslips and cotton

sailor suits,

but also your woodwork, your black puddings, your raisins,

your spirits, your hands, your pains

your worms, your swords

your big fish in small ponds, your small fish in big ponds

your hair, your coal

your nights without 40 winks, your connubials without 69

your savings put away for a rainy day,

your billows, your too famous flaws, your fabrics without a scar

your omissions, your gaps, your lapsus

your manuscripts

your aims and ambitions, your months in a shopping plaza,

your notations for hautboy, your abominations for Tarzan,

your bars and bistros, ad infinitum, a Void, a Void, a Void!

D O W N W I T H O B S C U R I T Y

"Alas, only a Champollion would know how to clarify that,"

murmurs a downcast Amaury.

"It's my turn now," says Savorgnan, who can hardly wait to

add his contribution. "A month ago I too got mail from Anton

9 7

Vowl. It had on it no distinguishing marks indicating who it was

from, but it was obvious that it had to do with our missing

companion" - adding, "although I still can't work out why Vowl

was so stubborn about maintaining his incognito . . ."

"What was in yours?" asks Amaury, as jumpy as a cat on a hot

tin roof.

"I'm coming to that. Look."

Unzipping his holdall, and rummaging through it, Savorgnan

pulls out a card and holds it up in front of his trio of companions.

"It's a 'kaolin' card (kaolin is a kind of clay found in China),

black as tar from a coating of Indian ink, at which a skilful local

craftsman ground away with a sharp scraping tool (or possibly a

vaccination pin), his inspiration for such a cunning notion no

doubt arising from a contraption thought up by Jarjack, who

was imitating that sad circus clown, that 'August', to whom (prior

to him) Oudiys arch-rival had brought immortality. And this

craftsman, by judiciously stripping off parts of its black back-

ground, finally had a diagram of a high-quality finish akin to

bamboo inscriptions such as you'll occasionally find on wash-

drawings from Japan."

"Is it from Japan?" Olga wants to know.

"Yup, it's from Japan all right. I instandy shot off for a

talk about it with my boss," says Savorgnan, "to wit, Gadsby

V. Wright. And with him I took a train to Oxford to

show its inscription to Parsifal Ogdan. This is a transcription

of it:

Kuraki yori

Kuraki michi ni zo

Usuzumi ni

Kaku tamazusa to

Kari miyum kana

"Sounds charming," says Augustus.

"It's a ha'ikai," says Savorgnan, "or should I say a tanka, but

not, as you might think, by Narihira. No, it's by Izumi Shikibu

9 8

(scholars, in fact, claim that it's probably his final work, his swan

song); or, if not, by Tsumori Kunimoto who, though just as

important, isn't as famous. Its initial publication was in Go shu i

shu, a compilation drawn up in honour of Japan's Mikado. Parsi-

fal Ogdan's word-for-word translation of this tanka is, in my

opinion, of an astonishing purity and proportion, particularly as

I was told by a chap from Tokyo's National Library, a man Anton

Vowl had known during his sojourn in Japan, that a tanka always

has 3, 5, 6, on occasion as many as 8, distinct connotations. But,

as Parsifal was to show us, such ambiguity, though crucial to

Japan, to its quaint way of thinking about things, has, for an

inhabitant of Paris or London, no charm at all about it, with

our traditional antipathy to all notions of obscurity, incongruity,

approximation and intangibility. A tanka must boast clarity,

concision, incision, candour, vivacity and unity of thought: in

translation, that's worth any amount of arguably major

omissions. So this is just a translation among many that Ogdan

thought up:

Out of tar-black

In a black tracing

By a point so sharp

Inscribing a sign which isn't black:

O look! an albatross in flight

"Too, too charming," sighs Amaury, "if not too, too illumi-

nating."

"I'm afraid my own contribution risks not advancing us much

in our task," says Olga, following an instant during which, as

though in growing discomfort, nobody says a word. "I say I'm

afraid, for if, in your diary, card and tanka, you found allusions

to a common point, a Void, my manuscript is as lucid, limpid and

unambiguous as yours, Amaury, or yours, Augustus, or yours,

Arthur, was cryptic, allusory and hard to grasp . . _."

"But," says Amaury, "that sounds as if it has a solution for

us . . ."

9 9

ft

Olga won't allow him to finish. "No, no, you don't follow. In

what I'm about to show you, you'll find no sign, no allusion of

any kind. For it's not an original work but a sort of anthology

comprising 5 or 6 works by various hands - various famous

hands, I might add - but containing nothing of any import to

u s . . . "

Now it's Augustus's turn to cut in. "Olga, my darling, has

nobody told you about cutting a long story short? Why don't

you just stick to facts?"

"All right, all right, I'm coming to that. Six days prior to that

odd postcard with its fascinatingly ominous postscript, I too got

mail from Anton - a bulging jiffy bag. And what I found in it

was:

a) a short story by a soi-disant Arago, 'An intriguing tour of our

country'. I was full of admiration for such a charming octavo

with its Arabic motifs and its morocco binding inlaid with gold.

Strictly as a work of fiction, though, it didn't, in my opinion,

amount to much;

b) six highly familiar madrigals, which most of us had to study

at school in our childhood: Anton's painstaking transcription,

word for word, without any annotations, any marginalia at all,

of:

• William Shakspar's 'Living, or not living5 soliloquy

• PBS's Ozymandias

• John Milton's On His Glaucoma

• Thomas Hood's No

• Arthur Gordon Pym's Black Bird

• Arthur Rimbaud's Vocalisations.

"Now and again, in an odd stanza or two, you'll find an illusion

to Anton's hang-ups: obscurity, immaculation, vanishing and

damnation. But I was struck most of all by how random it

was . . ."

1 0 0

"Possibly," says Amaury, "and, again, possibly not! For, if

Anton thought fit to copy it all out so laboriously, it's now our

job to find an indication in it as to his motivation."

Mumbling about proofs and puddings, it's Savorgnan's pro-

posal that only by a thorough study of Anton's transcriptions

will anybody hit upon such a motivation. "And who knows -

you, Amaury, or you, Augustus, or I may spot a crucial missing

link?"

Thus:

L I V I N G , O R NOT L I V I N G

Living, or not living: that is what I ask:

If'tis a stamp of honour to submit

To slings and arrows wafi'd us by ill winds,

Or brandish arms against a flood of afflictions,

Which by our opposition is subdu'd? Dying, drowsing;

Waking not? And by drowsing thus to thwart

An aching soul and all th' natural shocks

Humanity sustains. T is a consummation

So piously wish'd for. Dying, drowsing;

Drowsing; and, what say, conjuring visions: ay, that's th' rub;

For in that drowsy faint what visions may disturb

Our shuffling off of mortal coil,

Do prompt us think again. Of that calamity, to wit,

That is our living for so long;

For who would brook duration's whips and scorns,

A tyrant's wrong, a haughty man's disdain,

Pangs of dispriz'd ardour and sloth of law,

Th' incivility of rank and all th' insults

That goodly worth from its contrary draws,

If such a man might his own last affirm

With a bald bodkin ? Who would such ballast carry,

To grunt and wilt along his stooping path,

1 0 1

But that his horror of th' unknown,

That vast and unmapp'd land to which

No living man pays visit, is puzzling to his will,

Making him shrug off what now assails him

And shrink from posthumous ills?

Compunction thus turns all of us to cowards;

And thus our natural trait of fixity

Is sickli'd through with ashy rumination,

And missions of much pith and import

With this in mind soon turn awry,

And from all thoughts of action go astray.

W I L L I A M S H A K S P A R

O Z Y M A N D I A S

I know a pilgrim from a distant land

Who said: Two vast and sawn-ojf limbs of quartz

Stand on an arid plain. Not far, in sand

Half sunk, I found a facial stump, drawn warts

And all; its curling lips of cold command

Show that its sculptor passions could portray

Which still outlast, stamp'd on unliving things,

A mocking hand that no constraint would sway:

And on its plinth this lordly boast is shown:

"Lo, I am Ozymandias, king of kings:

Look on my works, O Mighty, and bow downI"

Tis all that is intact. Around that crust

Of a colossal ruin, now windblown,

A sandstorm swirls and grinds it into dust.

PBS

1 0 2

ON HIS G L A U C O M A

Whilst I do think on how my world is bound,

Now half my days, by this unwinking night,

My solitary gift, for want of sight,

Lain fallow, though within my soul abound

Urgings to laud th} Almighty, and propound

My own account, that God my faith not slight,

Doth God day-labour claim, proscribing light,

I ask; but calming spirits, to confound

Such murmurings, affirm, God doth not dun

Man for his work or his own gifts, who will

But kiss his chains, is dutijul, his gait

Is kingly. Thousands to his bidding run

And post on land and bounding main and hill:

Tour duty do who only stand and wait.

J O H N M I L T O N

NO!

No sun - no moon!

No morn - no noon!

No dawn - no dusk - no hour of night or day -

No sky - no bird in sight -

No distant bluish light -

No road - no path - no "'tis your right o* way"-

No turn to any Row -

No flying indications for a Crow -

No roof to any institution -

No nodding "Morning!"s on our constitution -

No gallantry for showing us -

No knowing us! -

No walking out at all - no locomotion,

No inkling of our way - no notion -

"No go" - thus no commotion -

1 0 3

No mail - no post -

No word from any far-flung coast -

No Park - no Ring - no door-to-door civility -

No company - no nobility -

No warmth, no mirth, no jocularity,

No joyful tintinnabula to ring -

No church, no hymns, no faith, no charity,

No books, no words, no thoughts, no clarity —

No thing! THOMAS H O O D

BLACK B I R D

Twos upon a midnight tristful I sat poring, wan and wistful,

Through many a quaint and curious list full of my consorts slain -

I sat nodding, almost napping, till I caught a sound of tapping,

As of spirits softly rapping, rapping at my door in vain.

ayTis a visitor," I murmur'd, "tapping at my door in vain -

Tapping soft as falling rain."

Ah, I know, I know that this was on a holy night of Christmas;

But that quaint and curious list was forming phantoms all in

train.

How I wish'd it was tomorrow; vainly had I sought to borrow

From my books a stay of sorrow - sorrow for my unjoin'd chain -

For that pictographic symbol missing from my unjoin'd chain -

And that would not join again.

Rustling faintly through my drapings was a ghostly, ghastly

scraping

Sound that with fantastic shapings fill'd my Julminating brain;

And for now, to still its roaring, I stood back as if ignoring

That a spirit was imploring his admission to obtain -

"Tis a spirit now imploring his admission to obtain -"

Murmur'd I, but all in vain."

1 0 4

But, my soul maturing duly and my brain not so unruly,

"Sir" said I, "or Madam, truly your acquittal would I gain;

For I was in fact caught napping, so soft-sounding was your

rapping,

So faint-sounding was your tapping that you tapp'd my door in

vain -

Hardly did I know you hit it" -1 undid it but in vain -

For 'twas dark without and plain.

Staring at that dark phantasm as if shrinking from a chasm,

I stood quaking with a spasm fracturing my soul in twain;

But my study door was still as untowardly hush'd and chill as,

Oh, a crypt in which a still aspiring body is just lain -

As a dank, dark crypt in which a still suspiring man is lain -

Barr'd from rising up again.

All around my study flapping till my sanity was snapping,

I distinctly caught a tapping that was starting up again.

"Truly," said I, "truly this is turning now into a crisis;

I must find out what amiss is, and tranquillity obtain -

I must still my soul an instant and tranquillity obtain -

For 'tis truly not just rain!"

So, my study door unlocking to confound that awful knocking,

In I saw a Black Bird stalking with a gait of proud disdain;

I at first thought I was raving, but it stalk'd across my paving

And with broad black wings a-waving did my study door attain -

Did a pallid bust of Pallas on my study door attain -

Just as if'twas its domain.

105

Now, that night-wing'd fowl placating my sad fancy into waiting

On its oddly fascinating air of arrogant disdain,

"Though thy tuft is shorn and awkward, thou," I said, "art not

so backward

Coming forward, ghastly Black Bird wand'ring far from thy

domain,

Not to say what thou art known as in thy own dusk-down

domain

Quoth that Black Bird, "Not Again".

Wondrous was it this ungainly fowl could thus hold forth so

plainly,

Though, alas, it discours'd vainly - as its point was far from plain;

And I think it worth admitting that, whilst in my study sitting,

I shall stop Black Birds from flitting thusly through my door

again -

Black or not, I'll stop birds flitting through my study door again -

What I'll say is, "Not Again!"

But that Black Bird, posing grimly on its placid bust, said primly

"Not Again", and I thought dimly what purport it might contain.

Not a third word did it throw o f f - not a third word did it know

of-

Till, afraid that it would go o f f , I thought only to complain -

"By tomorrow it will go off," did I tristfully complain.

It again said, "Not Again".

Now, my sanity displaying stark and staring signs of swaying,

"No doubt," murmur'd I, "it's saying all it has within its brain; That it copy'd from a nomad whom Affliction caus'd to go mad,

From an outcast who was so mad as this ghastly bird to train -

Who, as with a talking parrot, did this ghastly Black Bird train

To say only, 'Not Again.'"

1 0 6

But that Black Bird still placating my sad fancy into waiting

For a word forthcoming, straight into my chair I sank again;

And, upon its cushion sinking, I soon found my spirit linking

Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of Cain -

What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of

Cain

Sought by croaking "Not Again."

On all this I sat surmising, whilst with morbid caution sizing

Up that fowl; its tantalising look burn'd right into my brain;

This for long I sat divining, with my pain-rack'd back inclining

On my cushion's satin lining with its ghastly crimson stain,

On that shiny satin lining with its sanguinary stain

Shrilly shouting, "Not Again!"

Now my room was growing fragrant, its aroma almost flagrant,

As from spirits wafting vagrant through my dolorous domain.

"Good-for-naught," I said, "God sought you - from Plutonian

strands

God brought you -

And, I know not why, God taught you all about my unjoin'd

chain,

All about that linking symbol missing from my unjoin'd

chain!"

Quoth that Black Bird, "Not Again."

"Sybil!" said I, "thing of loathing - sybil, Jury in bird's clothing!

If by Satan brought, or frothing storm did toss you on its main,

Cast away, but all unblinking, on this arid island sinking -

On this room of Horror stinking - say it truly, or abstain -

Shall I - shall I find that symbol? - say it - say it, or abstain

From your croaking, 'Not Again'."

1 0 7

"Sybil!" said I, "thing of loathing - sybil, jury in bird's clothing!

By God's radiant kingdom soothing all man's purgatorial pain,

Inform this soul laid low with sorrow if upon a distant morrow

It shall find that symbol for - oh, fir its too long unjoin'd

chain -

Find that pictographic symbol missing from its unjoin'd chain."

Quoth that Black Bird, "Not Again."

"If that word's our sign of parting, Satan's bird," I said,

upstarting,

"Fly away, wings blackly parting, to thy Nighfs Plutonian

plain!

For, mistrustful, I would scorn to mind that untruth thou hast

sworn to,

And I ask that thou by morn tomorrow quit my sad domain!

Draw thy night-nibb'd bill from out my soul and quit my sad

domain

Quoth that Black Bird, "Not Again."

And my Black Bird, still not quitting, still is sitting, still is sitting On that pallid bust - still flitting through my dolorous domain;

But it cannot stop from gazing for it truly finds amazing

That, by artful paraphrasing, I such rhyming can sustain -

Notwithstanding my lost symbol I such rhyming still sustain -

Though I shan't try it again!

A R T H U R G O R D O N PYM

1 0 8

V O C A L I S A T I O N S

A noir (Un blanc), I roux, U safran, O azur:

Nous saurons au jour dit ta vocalisation:

A, noir carcan poilu d'un scintillant morpion

Qui bombinait autour d'un nidoral impur,

Caps obscurs; qui, cristal du brouillard ou du Khan,

Harpons du ford hautain, Rois Blancs, frissons d'anis?

I, carmins, sang vomi, riant ainsi qu'un lis

Dans un courroux ou dans un alcool mortifiant;

U, scintillations, ronds divins du flot marin,

Paix du patis tissu d'animaux, paix du fin

Sillon qu'un fol savoir aux grands fronts imprima;

O, finitif clairon aux accords d'aiguisoir,

Soupirs ahurissant Nadir ou Nirvana:

O I'omicron, rayon violin dans son Voir!

A R T H U R R I M B A U D

1 0 9

10

Which will finish by arousing pity in a big shot

Having painstakingly run through it, glancing at Amaury,

Savorgnan, Augustus and Squaw in turn, striving to find an obvi-

ous bait, a solid anchor to hold on to, a hook to catch on to, a

hint as to what such-and-such a locution might signify, Olga

sighs, a loud, long, profound sigh of frustration.

"I said just an instant ago that only Champollion would know

how to crack such a conundrum," says Augustus sadly. "But now

I doubt if Champollion could pull it off. A Chomsky might in a

pinch, though."

"Or possibly a Roman Jakobson, who could submit a struc-

turalist's opinion of OzymandiasV

"Why not Malcolm Bradbury!"

"And why not OuLiPo!"

"Baffling, just too, too baffling," Amaury stubbornly murmurs

as though in a world of his own.

"What is?" asks Arthur Wilburg Savorgnan.

"Rimbaud's 'Black A (a blank), ruby I, viridian U, cobalt O':

it's obvious to you, is it not, that it's trying to point us towards

a solution!"

"Why not? If I know anything about Olga's anthology, it's

that not a word in it, not a comma, was put down at random.

But that's Anton Vowl's doing, not Arthur Rimbaud's!"

"Who can say?"

His mind a total blank, his imagination a tabula rasa, Augustus

starts to talk - if almost inaudibly. Rapt in thought, his

1 1 0

companions hang on to his words, which, though at first brist-

ling with abstractions, blown up out of all proportion, soon glow

with an aura of inspiration:

"Black A (a blank). An ambiguity, such as this is, is a major

factor in any a contrario; advancing from that significmt, which

signals ipso facto how important it is first to pinpoint, by chrono-

logically listing, all rival sounds (such actualisation, paradoxically,

proving virtualisation by outwardly confuting it, it's crucial, if

absorbing such a blank in its immaculation, first to affirm its

distinction, its original particularity, its opposition to black, to

ruby, to viridian and cobalt), this 'a blank' thus unfolds motu

proprio out of its own contradiction, a vacant signal of that which

isn't in fact vacant, a blank such as you might find in a book

across which its author's hand inks in an inscription implicating

its own abolition: O, vain papyrus drawn back, unavoidably back,

into its own blank womb; a tract of a non-tract, a nihilistic tract

localising that oblivion huddling, crouching, within a word,

gnawing away at its own root, a rotting pip, a scission, a distrac-

tion, an omission both boasting and disguising its invincibility,

a canyon of Non-Colorado, a doorway that nobody would cross,

a corridor along which no foot would pad, a no-man's-land in

which all oral communication would instantly find, brought to

light, a gaping pit consuming any possibility of a praxis, a bright,

blazing conflagration that would turn anybody approaching it

into a human torch, a spring run dry, a blank word put out of

bounds, a word now null and void, always just out of sight,

always contriving to avoid scrutiny, a word no mispronunciation

can satisfy, a castrating word, a flaccid word, a vacant word con-

noting an insultingly obvious signification, in which suspicion,

privation and illusion all triumph, a lacunary furrow, a vacant

canal, a Lacanian chasm, a cast-off vacuum thirstily sucking us

into this thing unsaid, into this vain sting of a cry arousing us,

this fold wrinkling, on its margin, a mystificatory logic that still

confounds us, tricks us, inhibiting our instincts, our natural

impulsions, our options, damning us to oblivion, to an illusory

111

dawn, to rationality, to cold study, to distortion and untruth,

but also a mad authority, a craving for a purity which would

synchronously affirm passion, starvation, adoration, a substruc-

tion of unfactitious wisdom, of not-so-vain rumours, a human

articulation at its most psychically profound point, as of a

particularly clairvoyant spiritualist, or a saint, or any man not as

moribund as most of mankind. This is what I think. Within a

Logos, in its marrow, so to say, lurks a domain that for us is

off-limits, a zonal injunction that nobody can broach and to

which no suspicion can attach: a Void, a Blank, a missing sign

prohibiting us on a daily basis from talking, from writing, from

using words with any thrust or point, mixing up our diction and

abolishing our capacity for rigorous vocal articulation in favour

of a gurgling mumbo jumbo. A Blank that, for good and all, will

dumbfound us if accosting a Sphinx, a Blank akin to that giant

Grampus sought for many a moon by Ahab, a Blank into which

all of us will go missing in our turn . . ."

Augustus sits down, with a downcast air about him, totally

worn out . . . His companions start ruminating on what was

said.

"Just what I was going to say," murmurs Amaury in con-

clusion, as though intimating that Augustus took such obvious

words out of his own mouth. "Anton Vowl is missing."

"Hassan Ibn Abbou is missing," says Savorgnan.

"Douglas Haig Clifford did his vanishing act all of 20 springs

ago, an ashy furrow dividing his body in two," says Augustus.

"Douglas had on a sculptor's mould," sobs Olga, "to sing

Mozart's Commandant in Don Giovanni."

"Now now," says Savorgnan, "why so gloomy? Think of that

good old song by Francois Danican Philidor: 'All of us must act

in unison, notwithstanding our individual sorrows'. What all of

us must do right now is stop brooding about our missing com-

panions and try to grasp what's going on, so as to ward off any

damnation lying in wait for us, so as to rid us all of this frightful

albatross!"

1 1 2

"How will that occur," sighs Olga, "with this conundrum

baffling us, making us all limp and shaky, in proportion to our

burrowing into it, burrowing down, down to its inmost marrow,

as Augustus put it? Why rush at full tilt towards your own annihil-

ation? Why actually court that ignominious oblivion that was

Anton's lot and Hassan's and Haig's?"

Unanimously finding fault with this outpouring, judging it

just too compliant and timorous, Amaury, Savorgnan and Squaw

try to shout poor Olga down.

But with it soon looking as though it might turn into a

full-blown row, Augustus holds up his hand and, in a flat, monot-

onous drawl that cannot mask his low spirits, says:

"Calm down, amigos, calm down. Do try to control your

sorrow, your anguish, your wrath and your misgivings. You

should try taking to its logical conclusion Arthur Wilburg

Savorgnan's proposition, for, as Malcolm Lowry was wont to

say, 'You cannot catch up with a man who outruns his rivals'."

Consulting his watch, Augustus adds, "Look, it's almost mid-

night, I'm hungry and thirsty. I submit calling it quits, if only

for an hour or so, and rustling up a snack worthy of gustatory

buds as fastidious and discriminating as ours."

"Yum yum," murmurs a gluttonous Savorgnan.

"Unzip a banana," quips a waggish Amaury.

"In fact, a collation awaits you all in our dining room," says

Squaw, whom nobody saw go.

Augustus lightly claps his hands in anticipation, whilst Olga,

with intrinsic, natural sophistication (if that is not an oxymoron),

insists on changing into a formal outfit.

As Olga's will is paramount, our protagonists rush off, arriving

back in a flash, glamorous in glad rags.

Olga (who was, as I say, practically born "in") is a dazzling

vision in a formal Christian Dior pyjama suit of a filmy rainbow

satin, with a billowy flow of charming Victorian knick-knacks,

ribbons and bows, frills and braids, hoods and cuffs, to cushion

1 1 3

its diaphanous opacity. A chunky solid-gold Arab brooch,

portraying an asp, insinuatingly coils its capital S around a wrist

as slight and narrow as an orchid stalk.

Amaury foppishly sports a classic tail coat.

Savorgnan, a dandy, infallibly "with it", has put on a charcoal

tux, a saffron jabot and a fawn cravat. Amaury chirps at him in

grudging admiration.

"My tailor is rich," says Savorgnan in franglais, and with a

slighdy smug grin of satisfaction.

As for Augustus, who as a Consul was known for his ultra-

modish but unshowy chic, his outfit is of a sort which calls to

mind a British major informing Victoria of how wily Johnny

Pathan was drawn into an ambush at a mountain pass in colonial

India.

With "Ooohs" and "Ahhhs" and murmurs of mutual appro-

bation, Olga, Amaury and Savorgnan now walk arm in arm into

Augustus's dining room, which is laid out, thanks to Squaw, as

lavishly as though for a king and his court. A Louis X tallboy

prompts gasps of admiration all round, as also a Burgundy

bow-back chair with Hugo Sambin's stamp on it, a sofa of a

floral motif unmistakably by Ruhlmann and, most notably,

a divan with its own vast, airy canopy. Its attribution to Grinling

Gibbons was thought highly dubious, not to say downright

scandalous, by scholars and buffs, although it did carry his

hallmark.

"Did you know," says Augustus to Savorgnan, "that, sus-

picious of this attribution, and in my opinion righdy so, Warburg

and Courtauld would publish an important monograph of Gib-

bons by Gombrich that was also - though, naturally, only by

implication - a vicious attack on Panofsky?"

"You don't say?" snorts Savorgnan.

"Oh but I do! In fact, I don't mind adding that I actually

thought it would finish in a bout of fisticuffs. Gombrich, though,

who didn't want to fall out with his rival, would admit, in a

1 1 4

tactful Parthian shot, to having found in his slanging match with

Panofsky six major points on which, in an adroit combination,

to ground his first draft of Art and Illusion.''''

"Now it's that kind of information that will maintain your

divan's worth at any auction, Gibbons or not!"

On which prognosis all sit down.

It's no frugal cold-cut lunch that Augustus puts in front of his

trio of companions but a Lucullan orgy of gastronomic, gustatory

and, so to say, Augustatory glory. Its first dish is a chaud-froid of

ortolans a la Souvaroff. No fish, but an homard au cumin for which nothing short of a '28 Mouton-Rothschild is thought apt. To

follow, a roast gigot in onion gravy, its flavour subriy brought

out by a soup^on of basil; and, to accompany that, in conformity

with a tradition at La Maison Clifford (as Azincourt is jocularly

known among Augustus's visitors), a tasty if not too spicy curry.

And whilst this curry is still making its impact, a paprika salad is

brought in, brisding with scallions, cardoons and mushrooms,

zucchini and bamboo shoots. To fill that famous trou normand,

a glass of calvados, naturally, of first-class quality; and, in fitting

conclusion, a scrumptious parfait au cassis with which is drunk a

fruity Sigalas-Rabaud of a sort to bring a sigh of swooning bliss

from Curnonsky.

Proposing a toast, Augustus puts into tripping, flowing words

his vow that "from all our communal labour a solution to this

conundrum that's still baffling us, a way out of this circuitous

labyrinth of which nobody among us has found a ground plan,

will, and in fact must, soon turn up."

Glass clinks against glass. Glass upon glass is drunk. Naturally,

it's all just what you might call social drinking: as soon as Augustus

says, "I'm going to top up my glass", Amaury says, "So shall I."

And Olga. And Savorgnan. And back to Augustus.

It's now long past midnight. Amaury, in a tipsily flirtatious

mood, starts kissing Olga's hand (which, if timid and shaking

slighdy, is not withdrawn from his lips, lips moist and crimson

from a fabulous Armagnac drunk out of a glass of a strikingly

115

rainbowy irisation) and mumbling soft amorous nothings of a

burbling baby-talk intimacy.

Night is slowly fading into dawn. Far off a cock crows. A

mound of Iranian caviar is brought in.

Languidly snuggling up against Amaury, Olga nods off. Augus-

tus, for his part, informs Savorgnan of his participation in a local

rowing championship. Rowing was a sport wholly unknown at

Azincourt, but Clifford sounds anxious to back it, founding an

official Club, actually going as far as making this Club a baptismal

gift of a skiff with which to start things moving, and togging out

a trio of young locals in dark bluish suits boasting coats-of-arms

according to a good old Oxford tradition (at which 'varsity, in his

youth, Augustus had won acclaim as a first-class cox).

It's almost morning as Amaury and his companions finally call

it a day.

Noon rings out. A wasp, making an ominous sound, a sound

akin to a klaxon or a tocsin, flits about. Augustus, who has had

a bad night, sits up blinking and purblind. Oh what was that

word (is his thought) that ran through my brain all night, that

idiotic word that, hard as I'd try to pin it down, was always just

an inch or two out of my grasp - fowl or foul or Vow or Voyal? -

a word which, by association, brought into play an incongruous

mass and magma of nouns, idioms, slogans and sayings, a confus-

ing, amorphous outpouring which I sought in vain to control or

turn off but which wound around my mind a whirlwind of a

cord, a whiplash of a cord, a cord that would split again and again,

would knit again and again, of words without communication or

any possibility of combination, words without pronunciation,

signification or transcription but out of which, notwithstanding,

was brought forth a flux, a continuous, compact and lucid flow:

an intuition, a vacillating frisson of illumination as if caught in

a flash of lightning or in a mist abruptly rising to unshroud an

obvious sign - but a sign, alas, that would last an instant only

to vanish for good.

1 1 6

"How was it?" Augustus now murmurs calmly. "It was. Was

it? It was." It was a solution (or a pardon, or possibly just a form

of compassion) that was flittingly within his grasp but which no

word, no affirmation, of his could magnify into what is known,

simply, as wisdom.

At which point, although not knowing why so insignificant a

fact is having such an impact on him, it abruptly occurs to him

that Jonah, his carp, hasn't had its food - a trivial omission on

his part but also so haunting that, without waiting an instant,

Augustus puts his clothing on whilst mumbling an indistinct

incantation.

Nobody is stirring abroad. Augustus walks to a pantry cup-

board, picks up a handful of grain, of a kind that Jonah is particu-

larly partial to, and abruptly stops, having, in an unlit nook of

his drawing room, on top of an upright piano, caught sight of

that curious black clay box (black from a light coating of Indian

ink) on which, according to Savorgnan, Vowl had paid a first-

class artisan from Japan to paint a tanka. Drawn to it by an almost

morbid fascination, Augustus picks it up and holds it flat in

his hand, staring at Vowl's tanka, a pictographic symbol of an

incomparably finicky calligraphy, and tracing out with a long

almondy thumbnail its insinuatingly squiggly contours.

At which, and totally without warning, a horrifying, inhuman

cry is thrust out of him:

"Ai! Ai! A Zahir! Look, look, a Zahir!"

With his flailing hand caught in mid-air, Augustus falls down

in a fatal swoon.

As it turns out, his cry is so loud, shrill and blood-curdling that

all of his company start up, quickly slip on nightgowns and rush

downstairs, panicking and paling, aghast and cowardly, colliding

with a chair and spilling a goldfish bowl, groping for a doorknob

and finally locating a light switch - Amaury, as usual, arriving

first, with Olga, Savorgnan and Squaw in tow.

Augustus is lying on a giant octagonal rug with Russian motifs.

1 1 7

A ghastly rictus contorts his lips. In its last, dying spasm, his

hand had split Vowl's clay box in half. Around his body is a

random sprinkling of grain.

"Why grain?" asks a dumbstruck Amaury.

"It was for his carp," says Olga, who knows all of Augustus's

funny habits and quirks.

"Uh huh," adds Squaw, "Jonah hasn't had any food for two

days. It was a daily obligation of ours that both of us had lost

track of, what with all that was going on."

"And my hunch is," says Olga thoughtfully, "that, whilst

choosing grain for his carp, Augustus was struck down by a

malady as abrupt as it was mortal, a trauma, a shock, a coronary

thrombosis - who can say?"

"All right," says Savorgnan, "but how do you link his attack

with this box that our poor host was crumpling in his hand

during his final agony?"

"His last word was that . . . that frightful cry," says Amaury

in his turn, "but what was it trying to say? Could any of you

work it out?"

"To my mind it was Traitor, traitor!'" says Olga.

"I thought I could distinguish 'Samar' or 'Zair^" says

Savorgnan.

"No," says Squaw, "what it was in fact was 'A Zahir! Look,

look, a Zahir!'"

"A Zahir?" Olga, Amaury and Savorgnan cry out in chorus.

"Just what is a Zahir???"

"Oh, it's a long, long story," Squaw languidly murmurs.

"But it's our right to know!"

"Okay, if you must know . . . " says Squaw. "But first, why

don't you try to ring up Aloysius Swann or Ottavio Ottaviani,

for only two days ago Augustus had a radiogram from Swann

that said: 'I'm following your situation. It looks bad. What I'm

most afraid of now is foul play. All my suspicions focus on Azin-

court, so both of us must stay on our guard. I must know a.s.a.p.

if your inquiry brings anything to light, as it's only by knowing

1 1 8

what's going on that I can act.' Aloysius Swann has - I should

say, had - known Clifford for many a moon," Squaw adds,

"known, too, about this Zahir affair. So his collaboration is cru-

cial to us."

Amaury calls up Aloysius Swann; but, informing him that

Swann isn't at his station, HQ puts him through to Ottaviani.

"Hallo hallo?" says Ottavio Ottaviani. "This is Ottavio

Ottaviani."

"Hallo hallo?" says Amaury Conson. 'This is Amaury

Conson."

"Amaury? How's tricks?"

"Not so hot."

"Why, what's up?"

"Only an instant ago Augustus B. Clifford 'shuffl'd off his

mortal coil', as our national Bard, our Swan of Avon, put it!"

"Crocus and plum pudding!" growls Ottavio (it's an old

Corsican oath popular among Parisian cops). "Kaput?"

"You said it!"

"A killing?"

"No, no, probably a coronary - but that's only a layman's

opinion."

"Good Lord!" roars Ottaviani. "Okay, now, don't touch any-

thing - I'm on my way. Ciao!"

Ottaviani hangs up. Amaury ditto, saying to Olga, who was

not au fait with this discussion, "Ottavio's coming round.

Pronto."

Augustus Clifford's body is brought into an adjoining drawing

room and laid out on a low divan, with a thin cloak for its shroud.

Upon which Squaw asks his companions to crouch around it

on an oval Iroquois rug and starts to cast a hypnotic old Indian

charm.

"Squaw," Olga murmurs almost inaudibly to Amaury, "cannot

hold forth without first warding off God's wrath by a singsong

chant that no Grand Manitou would sanctify if it didn't go in

1 1 9

association with an imploration and an invocation of, I may say,

a most rigorous liturgy, its ritualisation laid down, on his Clan's

foundation, all of 784 springs ago, by its original Grand Satchmo

(from which word a famous black jazz musician, Louis Arm-

strong, took his alias), so formulating a sort of oral canon which,

passing down from clan to clan, from family to family, ad infi-

nitum, is now part of our cultural patrimony."

"You don't say?"

Thus, in an outlandishly occult jargon that no noncommunicant

could follow, Squaw proclaims Grand Satchmo's oral canon,

announcing, to start with, a total submission to its instructions

and, matching action to words, actually carrying out such instruc-

tions, from first to last in turn, with an assiduity that was a joy

to watch.

"O Grand Satchmo, 784 springs ago, you taught us a mystical

art, that of warding off Grand Manitou's horrifying wrath. Today

I shall act just as you did. First, you did go into a dark wigwam.

You did put down a pouch, unhitch it and draw out a black

tomahawk. Now, on an oval rug, you did lay out six stalks of

buffalo grass, as black as night from a touch of a tarbrush, four

tiny clay pots, out of which you took a light sprinkling of tobacco,

a strip of touchwood and a long, hollow roll of piping. Now,

you did undo a truss of arrows, which was lying diagonally aslant

your rug, honing arrow against arrow until its point was as sharp

as a dart's. Now you did swap your clothing for a pair of buck-

skins and carry out your ablutions. At which, squatting not far

from your rug, a profound tranquillity now filling your soul, you

found that you could pacify Grand Manitou with soothing

words: O Grand Manitou, thou art blind, but thou know'st all

that is to know. I know thy might - as do both hippopotamus

and tapir, gnu and urial, falcon and Vizsla, duckbill platypus and

wapiti, cougar and xiphidon, bison and yak, low-flying albatross

and furry African zorilla with its skin that, curiously, has no

flavour. Today, with my companions, I am about to go forth in

1 2 0

my turn - go forth to absorb an occult and now, alas, outworn

fount of wisdom, to construct, in my skin and in my soul, that

original cry out of which our clans will spring full grown. Grand

Manitou, O archaic Artisan, mount guard, today and always!"

121

10

In which an umbilical ruby avails a bastard's

anglicisation

Falling on all fours, arms stiffly akimbo, brow touching floor,

Squaw abruptly jumps up again and spins round and round and

round.

"Voila," says Olga. "That was Squaw's invocation. Our mission

has found favour with Grand Manitou. Now to find out what

this 'Zahir' is all about."

In Masulipatam (Squaw starts) Zahir was a jaguar; in Java, in

a Surakarta hospital, it was an albino fakir at whom that city's

population had had fun casting rocks; in Shiraz it was an octant

which Ibnadir Shah had thrown into Iran's tidal flow; in a prison

in Istanbul it was a compass found in a pariah's rags, a pariah

whom Oswald Carl von Slatim had thought to touch for good

luck; in Abdou Abdallah's Alhambra in Granada it was, according

to Zotanburg, a stratum of onyx in a moulding; in Hammam-

Lif's Casbah, it was lying in a pit; in Bahia Bianca it was a tiny

notch on a coin.

To know about Zahir, you must apply your mind to an imposing

doorstop of a book that Iulius Barlach brought out, in Danzig,

just as Otto von Bismarck's Kulturkampf was at last drawing to its

conclusion, a book containing a mass of information, including

Arthur Philip Taylor's introductory study in its original manu-

script. Faith in Zahir was born in Islam as Austria's war with its

Ottoman antagonists was winding down. "Zahir", in vulgar

Arabic slang, stood for "limpid" or "distinct"; it was also said 1 2 2

that Muslims had as many as 26 ways of praising Allah - notably,

naming him "Zahir".

At first sight a Zahir looks normal, almost banal: a slightly

wan individual, possibly, or a common, humdrum thing such as

a rock, a doubloon, a wasp or a clock dial. But, in any form it

adopts, it has a truly horrifying impact: who looks upon a Zahir

will not again know Nirvana, blissful oblivion, and will turn into

a haggard raving lunatic.

Alluding first to Zahirs was a fakir from Ispahan, who told

how, many, many moons ago, in a souk in Shiraz, a brass octant

was found "of such craftsmanship that it cast an undying charm

on anybody who saw it". As for Arthur Philip Taylor's long and

thorough monograph, it informs us that, at Bhuj, in a suburb of

Hydarabad, its author was taught a curious local saying, "Having

known a Jaguar .. .", which, if it should apply to an individual,

stood for madman or saint. Taylor was told, too, that Zahir is

common to all kinds of civilisation; in a distant and idolatrous

past, it was a talisman, Yauq; but also a visionary from Irraouaddi

sporting a crown of lapis lazuli and a mask spun out of a

ribbon of gold. Taylor also said: nobody can wholly fathom

Allah.

In Azincourt Zahir was an ovoid crystal of opaloid corundum,

as tiny as a lotus, with a trio of distinct markings on it: on top

a stamp akin to an Astaroth's 3-digit hand; at its midway point

a horizontal 8, traditionally signifying Infinity; at bottom an arc

gaping slighdy ajar, so to say, and finishing in a short, fairly

straight inward strip.

Accompanying Zahir's apparition was a disturbing fact (says

Squaw, continuing). On a spring morning (28 April) a man rang

at our door - squat, swarthy, a bit of a thug, in a whitish grubby

smock, which was, if you want my opinion, a sum total of his

clothing.

"I bin walking all day long," was what this insalubrious indi-

vidual said first. "I'm hungry and thirsty."

1 2 3

"Fuck off, you sonofabitch!" said I, as, frankly, I didn't know

him from Adam.

For an instant all I got from him was a long, hard, hurt look.

Abrupdy, though, as I was about to pick up a club to brain him

with:

"No. I brought a . . . a gift for Clifford."

"What sort of gift?"

"I'm not saying - it's for him to find out, not for you to know."

"Okay, okay," I said, playing it cool, "walk this way. I'll find

out if Mr Clifford's willing to talk to you."

I took him towards a small drawing room in which Augustus

was just finishing his lunch with a satsuma and a slab of Stilton.

"Who is it, Squaw?"

"A vagrant - wants a word - has a sort of gift: for you."

"A gift? Is it anybody I know?"

"I doubt it."

"A ruffian, would you say?"

"No, just a down-and-out."

"Knows who I am?"

"Uh huh."

"All right. Show him in."

As I was announcing him, our visitor was standing half in and

half out, hopping from foot to foot, scrutinising Augustus with

an air that wasn't so much uncivil as almost aghast.

"Augustus B. Clifford?"

'That's right. And might I know who . . . ?"

"I'm nobody at all, not having had any baptism in my infancy.

But I do admit to an alias - an alias that'll charm you, I think,

though you may find it just a tad oudandish: Tryphiodorus. What

do you think of that?"

"Tryphiodorus? It's . . . most original," said Augustus, not

knowing what this was all about.

"Thank you kindly, sir. Now," said Tryphiodorus, calmly going

on as if nothing was untoward, "four days ago, in Arras, a cardinal

- with a blush on his fat mug, I must say, as crimson as his cloak

1 2 4

- said that I should 'go instantly to Augustus B. Clifford at

Azincourt and inform him that a son of his was in our city's

public hospital, wailing away as if h i s - ' "

"A son!" Augustus cut him short, almost falling down on his

rump (his bottom, his buttocks, his bum, his ass or his BT - call

it what you will). "But, for crying out loud, who brought him

in?"

"Alas!" was Tryphiodorus's sigh. "His mama was also dying

whilst giving birth to him, a poor, totally unknown woman. But

a solicitor's affidavit was found in a handbag-"

"A handbag!"

"That's right. With confirmation that this (urn, how shall I put

it?) this fruit of a transitory affair uniting on a night of passion,

8 months ago, at Saint-Agil, Augustus B. Clifford and his mama,

was officially your son."

"What's . . . what's that you say?" Augustus was practically

choking. "A night of passion? But I . . . I insist . . . it's . . . not

. . . not a word of truth in that farrago!"

"Shut up!" said a now intimidating Tryphiodorus, "and look

at this court ruling, instructing you, ipso facto, to bring up your

child."

"A bastard!" was all Augustus could cry.

"But also a Brit," said Tryphiodorus.

Although his initial instinct was to consult his solicitor, Tryphiod-

orus was so insistant that Augustus finally took off for Arras,

compliant if still dubious. In Arras's hospital a plump, rubicund

matron put in his grudging arms a baby clad in a cotton outfit

that was a bit too big for his tiny body. So, making a trip that

would occur again in 20 springs, almost without distinction,

saving that his load would consist not of a baby in swaddling

but a body in a shroud, Augustus sat his offspring down in

his Hispano-Suiza sports car and, driving all night, was back in

Azincourt by dawn.

Starting up at a furious knocking on our door, I ran downstairs

125

to unlock it. Augustus, carrying his child in his arms, was hopping

mad, an ugly rictus distorting his lips, a wild, spasmatic tic caus-

ing his chin to twitch up and down.

"I'll kill him, I'll kill him!" - that was his shrill cry. Why, my

blood ran cold!

"This way, Squaw," Augustus said, briskly now, striding into

his drawing room, brutally hurling his poor, worn-out infant on

to a billiard board, drawing off his swaddling garb, picking up

a poniard and approaching his victim, as Abraham to his son

Isaac, his arm high and fatal. I couldn't stand to watch it. But it

was just as Augustus was about to carry out this inhuman act

that an abrupt transformation was to occur in him. With a look

of profound anguish, this murmur:

"Oh! Oh!"

Approaching, I saw in my turn an oval ruby, as tiny as buck-

shot, with a trio of inscriptions, incrusting his infant's tummy-

button, as if it was a bloody stump of his umbilical cord.

Unmindful of his child's continuing sobs, Augustus took that

oval ruby (not without difficulty) out of its tummy-button, gaz-

ing at it for an instant without saying a word. A thick, suffocating

gurgling sound shook his torso.

"Right," was his first word. "I am willing to confront public

scorn. As this brat truly is my son, what can I do but adopt him?

I'll call him Douglas Haig, thus immortalising that bold and

cunning Commandant with whom I fought at Douaumont. I'll

maintain a constant watch so that nobody will inform him of his

status as a natural child, a bastard. His adoration for his guardian

will stay unambiguously filial."

So Augustus B. Clifford found his Zahir on his own son, who

was to find in him a worthy papa, magnanimous, solicitous and

sagacious. As for that Zahir, it was to form an incrustation on a

gold ring which Augustus would always insist on sporting on

his right hand.

Douglas Haig would soon attain boyhood. Not a day at Azin-

court would go by that wasn't calm and harmonious; not a day,

1 2 6

for six long springs, that wasn't full of joy and good humour.

And, among Azincourt's shrubs, in its plush, lush, luxuriant

grounds, a glowing, coruscating, autumnally purplish crimson

would turn into a warm brown finish a sparkling bluish sky,

across which would blow (God's own natural air-conditioning)

a bracing north wind . ..

1 2 7

10

On a fantastic charm that a choral work by Anton

Dvorak starts to cast on a billiard board

So that (says Squaw) you'll grasp how all our bad luck was born

and out of what it's grown, I'm going to start again from scratch

with a long flashback.

In his youth, Augustus had had (but why? To this day nobody

knows but him) what you might call a moral crisis, a crisis so

alarming that a cousin of his, a naval man, in fact an Admiral,

afraid of his blowing his brains out in a fit of anguish, distraction

or illumination, got him to do a six-month stint on his sloop

"Flying Dutchman", aboard which young Augustus was taught

a harsh but invigorating job, that of cabin boy.

On coming out of his psychological convulsion, which was in

truth so profound that his circumnavigation didn't totally fulfil

its function of curing him, Augustus was to fall for a charlatan

(or quasi-charlatan), Othon Lippmann, who had, as a soi-disant

yogi, a charismatic gift that would transform many of his faithful

into fanatics.

With Augustus pinning his faith on this dubious guru, trusting

him implicidy, worshipping him as a fount of occult wisdom, a

holy pathway to oblivion, to Nirvana, sly Othon Lippmann,

without wasting an instant, sought to act on his minion's child-

ishly candid imagination by forcing him into a total abjuration

of his Christianity, by inculcating him in his own cult, a schis-

matic olla podrida that took as its immortal gods not only Vishnu

and Brahma but Buddha and Adonai, by obliging him, in its

1 2 8





initiation ritual, to study as many as six "holy" books, actually

an unholy mishmash, a ludicrous hocus-pocus drawn up from

Vasavadatta, from Mantic Uttair, Kalpasutra, Gita-Govinda,

Tso-Tchouan and Zohar, and in which you could also find,

thrown in any old how, Saint Mark, Saint Justin, Montanus,

Arius, Gottschalk, Valdo, William Booth, John Darby,

Haggada, a significant chunk of Shulhan Azukh, Sunna, Gholan

Ahmad, Qruti, four Upanishads, two Puranas, Tao-to-King,

Catapathabrahmana and thirty of Li-Po's songs.

An important factor in Othon's cult was its draconian Canon,

imposing on his faithful a host of implorations, invocations,

orisons and unctions.

It also had four purifications a day (at cockcrow, noon, six

o'clock and midnight) and Augustus would carry out his morning

purification in a particularly original fashion. This would consist

of his taking a lustral bath of morning damp - damp which I

had to scoop up from 25 tanks laid out in various locations

around Azincourt's grounds and which an oudandish apparatus

would start canalising into a low, long tub built out of a raw

block of antico rosato, a crystal quartz so hard only an uncut

diamond could polish it.

So that a surplus of irroration harmful to his constitution

wouldn't afflict Augustus, this admission of damp was con-

ditional upon a circuit of automatisation stabilising both its flow

and its constant fluctuations, and calibrating that flow by a hydro-

hoist of communicating airlocks, its oscillation provoking (by

a narrow conduit, that of a cog-rotating piston on a fulcrum

controlling an input-output transistor circuit and its induction)

his apparatus's constriction.

Thus, day by day, dozily crawling from his futon, Augustus

would find a lustral bath of a total, unvarying constancy.

For it, though, to conform to his faith and its laws, Augustus

had to buy a trio of products with which Othon Lippmann would

furnish him at an absurdly high cost:

first, a drop or two of starch, as, containing too much

1 2 9

ammonia, morning damp might risk an obstruction in his throat,

thus making it obligatory to add a soothing lubricant;

also, six grains of albumin, strong in radioactivity, which

Othon would claim had a vigorous purifying capacity (it was in

actual fact a shampoo for phthiriasis, a dubious concoction from

a notoriously unorthodox stomatologist in Avignon who'd

sought to inflict it on that city's public hospital; a prohibitory

injunction was almost instantly brought against it, though, as it

was found to contain far too much aconita; and so it was said

that Othon, coming by this surplus in his usual shady fashion,

found it politic to fly to Tirana - only, on chancing across a

pack of local bandits, to apply his skills to a flourishing traffic in

opium);

finally, day in, day out, Augustus would add to his bath 26 or

25 carats of a product of unknown composition, a product that

was most probably its principal factor, its gist.

Was its impact soporific? or hallucinatory? or hypnotic? To

this day nobody knows. What I can say, though, is that it would

transport him into a condition, a stupor, of almost voluptuous

bliss. As soon as his lustral bath was just right, not too hot, not

too cold, as soon as, in that hairy pink birthday suit of his,

Augustus slowly sank into it for his morning purification, a mon-

strous frisson would run through his body. Knotting a tight

caparison around his brow so that his nostrils would stay dry,

thus avoiding any risk of suffocating in his tub, Augustus would,

in a twinkling, go limp, sluggish, and fall into a coma.

On occasion, as soon as this coma of his would pass, Augustus

was willing to talk about it, about his Nirvana, his fainting fit,

his blissful swoon, his vision of an All-Surpassing Guru, his visita-

tion by an All-Knowing Divinity, his introduction to a profound

and original Fount of Wisdom, to a God Almighty and His holy

Will, his fascination with total Sublimity - in a word, his Illumi-

nation. Numb and catatonic, but - and I'm quoting him word

for word - soaking in Oblivion, bathing in Purity, wallowing in

Infinity.

1 3 0

Until his son's, and thus his Zahir's, irruption into his daily

round, Augustus took his morning lustral bath without fail,

ritually, and also took profound satisfaction, both physical and

spiritual, from it.

But if his Zahir was on his pinky (which, in truth, it always

was, so allowing him constandy to gloat on it, allowing him,

too, to inform anybody willing to pay mind to him that nothing

was as alluring to him as his own mortality), Augustus found

that dunking it, so to say, in his bath would straightaway bring

about an agonising pain in his body, a constantly throbbing itch,

a chafing inflammation, so sharp, stinging and prickly that, not-

withstanding a will of iron, it was soon impossibly difficult for

him to stand it - aching, tingling, vomiting and, in addition,

losing sight of that swooning bliss that was his bath's vital, capital,

cardinal alibi, its primary motivation, its basic goal.

So, racking his brains, Augustus thought up an apparatus

which, akin to that harnass that would maintain his nostrils dry,

would allow him, without too much pain, to sport his Zahir in

his bath; and built a spool-hoist, fitting it out with a jack to

control a maulstick that would float on top.

For fully six springs, by thus avoiding both Scylla and

Charybdis, his morning ritual would go off without a hitch.

From his lustral bath Augustus would draw an invigorating com-

fort as unfailing as it was abundant.

But a day would dawn on which, climbing out of his tub, languid,

clumsy, awkward, still stagnating in his morning Nirvana, Augus-

tus, noticing that his Zahir was now not on his pinky and that a

clot of blood, about as big as a ruby, was coagulating on it,

forming a pallid, oval stigma, as if marking his Zahir's incrus-

tation - a day on which Augustus, I say, crying out in a truly

inhuman fashion, his wits in total disarray, would start pacing

back and forth, back and forth, for four days and four nights,

turning this way and that, haggard and drawn, frantically

unlocking tallboys and cupboards, looking high and low, rum-

1 3 1

maging Azincourt from top to bottom, from rooftops to

floorboards, ransacking its outbuildings, its barns, its courtyard

and its hayloft, raking all its shingly paths.

Four ghasdy days, which a brutal fifth was to cap: Othon

Lippmann's arrival at Azincourt.

Othon, obviously all in, his body giving off a strong musky

odour, his raglan practically in rags, instandy ran towards Augus-

tus with a foul outpouring of profanity, vilifying him, shouting

a long string of disgusting cuss-words at him, almost physically

abusing him.

His command of insults might rival Captain Haddock's in Tin-

tin - "Oaf! Pinbrain! Numbskull! Big fat ninny! Nincompoop!

Halfwit! Schmuck! Moron! Lazy good-for-nothing! Stupid old

fart!"

At which point, Othon hit him hard on his jaw.

With amazing sang-froid, Augustus, thrown for a loop by

Othon's fiilmination, put up a good fight, landing a knockout

blow, a right swing, which had his assailant on his back, groggy,

out cold.

Watching this bout of fisticuffs, Augustus's son, who at that

point was a typically naughty kid of six, had a lot of fun counting

1 . . . 2 . . . 3 . . . up to 10 and finally proclaiming his papa

champion.

But Othon Lippmann was still unconscious. Abruptly triumph

was turning to alarm.

I saw that Augustus was now frantically wringing his hands

and asking in a low, gruff murmur, "What's wrong with him?

Oh, what's wrong with him?"

For his part, Haig, too young to know that a tornado was just

about to hit him, was frolicking around Othon's limp

body, laughing so loudly that Augustus, in a fury, judging his

son's antics unfitting in such a situation, curdy told him to go

away.

"Off with you! Scram!" was his cry, a cry so loud that Haig,

1 3 2

who, until that instant, had found his papa an unfailingly kind

man, took off with a halting, blushing apology. An involuntary

convulsion shook his childish body, causing him not only to burst

into sobs but soil his pants.

So, whilst Haig ran off, trying to pluck up his spirits by sprinkling

grain into his carp's pond, a task that would always amus-

"Hang on a mo," Olga cuts Squaw off in mid-word. "I forgot

about Jonah. Poor thing, it's probably starving."

"Shhh! Shhh!" cry Amaury and Savorgnan. "First, Squaw has

to finish this gripping, fascinating story!"

"Thank you," says Squaw.

So, as I was saying (says Squaw), whilst Haig was nourishing

his carp, I took Othon into an adjoining drawing room, laid him

out on a sofa and got him to swallow a tonic. Augustus and I

took off his raglan and (oh, abomination of abominations!) had

a vision causing us both to panic, causing our blood to run cold,

our hair to stand up in tufts, our skin to go all pimply - a vision

of Othon Lippmann bathing in his own blood. It was as if a

monstrous hawk had flown again and again down on to his torso,

flaying him, ripping off his skin, poking into his lungs, drawing

out his innards, digging into his thorax with its anvil blows.

What I saw in his body was a tiny zoo of vomit-making animals

- gadfly, blowfly, wasp, worm, cockroach, moth - buzzing, hum-

ming, squirming, as gluttonous as carrion crows, on a bloody,

slimy, gassy, putrid magma that stank a yard away!

"Ugh!" says Olga.

"Yuk!" says Amaury.

You said it (says Squaw). In an agony lasting all of six days

Othon would slip into a profound coma, surfacing from it on

occasion only to shout insults at us, accusing us, God only knows

why, of conspiring to kill him, calling damnation down upon us.

I did all I could for him and so did Augustus - hoping that his

dying days wouldn't incur too much fuss or strain. And Othon

1 3 3

did finally pass away, hurling hair-raising oaths at us and, with

his last, rasping gasp, drawing from out of his lungs a cry so

horrifying I instantly had to throw up.

This was, at his burial, Augustus's orison:

"Othon Lippmann — you, my Guru — go straight to God's

kingdom, to that Holy City in which a Houri, a gift to you

from Allah in all His compassion, now awaits you. I was a daily

communicant in that faith that you brought us and taught us so

long ago. Today I am abjuring it, today, tomorrow and for

always. For, with your passing on, what can I do with your faith

but abolish it? And so, with touchwood, will you and I go forth

at midnight."

With that Parthian shot did his orison finish. It was, was it

not, a curious thing to say and, for my part, only his action that

night was to clarify it. Drawing his inspiration from Othon's

own apostolic Canon, amassing and binding up six thick faggots,

Augustus put a torch to his (which is to say, Othon's) body. It

burnt for a day and a half, producing a whitish ash that a whisding

north wind would sow all around us . . .

Nobody, not any of you, can know what anguish and affliction

struck us down at that point. Totally caught up in his sorrow,

his prostration, his apathy, mounting his Golgotha with a Cross

on his back, carrying, too, a giant, flapping albatross of guilt and

mortification, Augustus B. Clifford sank into a torpor.

It was frightful to watch him pacing up and down, all day and

all night, in suicidally low spirits - to watch this man who, as

you know, was a bon vivant, not to say a bit of a gourmand., just nibbling at his food, just picking at his lunch. Notwithstanding

that I would lovingly cook for him all my most subdy scrump-

tious culinary concoctions — aloyau aux oignons confits, turbot au

court-bouillon, a London broil, boudin au raifort, scampi - Augus-

tus got down, at most, an anchovy, a shaving of Cantal, a dash

of Izard, a drop of amontillado, half an apricot or a solitary

walnut — and that was on a good day.

1 3 4

Starting to grow disturbingly thin, occasionally withdrawing

to his donjon, locking its door, not surfacing from it for six

days, although, from within, without warning, and invariably at

midnight, giving out an alarming howl, Augustus would abruptly

turn up again, as if in a stupor, his brow moist and sticky, his

good looks haggard and drawn. In just 12 months his auburn

hair had lost all its colour, transforming him into a grizzly old

fogy.

Haig, a pallid, sickly, timorous boy, an unwitting victim of all

that gloom and doom, was psychologically unfit for this cold,

harsh world of ours, a world in which, if you want to function,

you simply cannot show any pity. Gradually coming to know his

son, snapping out of his nihilistic sloth at long last, disparaging

his past duplicity, his misconduct, his casual abandoning of his

offspring, Augustus finally got down to pray for moral stamina,

so that no guilt, no stigma, should attach to his son for a sin that

was his - which is to say, his own - and nobody's but his.

"I had what you might call an anti-Midas touch," is how

Augustus put it, milking his propitiation for all it was worth. "I

would spoil all that was truly important in my world, and what

I couldn't spoil, what I couldn't corrupt, I would simply forbid.

I know now that I'm going to rot, I'm going to go to pot, in

my insignificant vacuum, in my void - but I will insist that my

son, that fruit of my unruly loins, for whom I affirm, in front of

all that is holy, an undying passion from this day forth -1 insist,

I say, that my son's schooling will start right away, from today,

and it's I who will tutor him. In addition," Augustus finally said

with a sigh, "may I find in this daily obligation my own harsh

but vital salvation."

So Augustus took in hand his son's instruction - an arduous

task as his mind was almost a tabula rasa. It was soon obvious

that his tuition at Azincourt's local grammar school had had

practically no impact on him. Haig, who had an amazingly poor

vocabulary for a lad of 12, had no grasp of orthography at all;

135

was totally lacking in imagination; could do subtraction but not

addition, division but not multiplication; was blissfully ignorant

of Avogadro's Law or, should I say, mistook it for an axiom of

Arago that had nothing at all to do with it; and would gladly

inform you that Louis X was familiarly known at court as Hutin

but had no notion why. As for Latin, although a thick manual

was put at his disposal, it had childishly strict limits: " Animula

vagula blanda", "Aquila non capit muscas'\ "Sic transit gloria

mundi" or "O firtunatos nimium sua si bona norint qgricolas".

Inculcating a satisfying command of basics in his son took a lot

out of Augustus, who, although working hard at it, at all hours,

did, as both tutor and adjudicator, inflict on his ignorant child

a form of schooling that was far too high in its standards,

incongruously abstract in its quality and mosdy much ado about

nothing. Poor Haig would swallow all this waffling, compliant,

smiling and without any sulky ill will; but it was also obvious,

within a month, that such tuition on its own could not, would

not, bring about automatic intuition. To Augustus's dismay, his

son was null in anything touching on maths, philosophy and

Latin, and had, at most, only a faint inkling of Italian and Spanish.

As for linguistics, Haig truly put in a lot of hard work, contriving

to grasp, grosso modo, a host of grammatical, syntactical and

phonic quirks, managing to distinguish - in, say, four words out

of six - a glottal from a labial, a noun from a pronoun, an ordinary

auxiliary from a modal auxiliary, a past from a conditional, a root

from a suffix, a comma from a colon, a surd from a sonant, a

chiasmus from an oxymoron, sarcasm from irony and, finally,

pathos from bathos (and both from Porthos and Athos).

It was frustrating for Augustus (on whom it would quickly

dawn that his original plan to turn Haig into a brilliant physicist

was all in vain) that his own input vis-a-vis his son's vocation

was practically minimal. At which point, forgoing all such

ambitions, it struck him as a surprising but also charming fact

that it was for music that Haig — whom Augustus had caught

1 3 6

on two occasions puffing into a tuba and producing from it a

sound that wasn't wholly discordant - had both a passion and a

gift. Haig had, too, a natural instinct for harmony, a distinct

vocal ability and could sing a song, any song, if it was sung to

him first.

So Augustus, whom Iturbi had taught in his youth, bought a

grand piano (it was a Graf with a slighdy nasal tonal quality but

miraculous pitch, built for Brahms, who would tap out on it, so

it was said, his Impromptu Opus 28) and had it put in a drawing

room in which also stood a billiard board (that billiard board on

which, as I told you, Augustus almost took a poniard to Douglas

as a baby).

Day by day, do mi fab sob, from morning till night, sob fab mi

do, Augustus would drill his son in that gracious art that is sing-

ing, both accompanying and inspiring him. Abandoning his

Latin, his Italian and Spanish, Haig thought only of his passion

for classical music, finding total satisfaction in Mozart, Bach,

Schumann and Hugo Wolf. In truth, not so much Apollo as

Marsyas, his susurration was too squally, his sonority too soft,

his modulation too shaky, his sharps flat, and his pitch simply

off. Augustus's son, in short, sang badly — but was to know,

notwithstanding, a joy in singing that no plummy vibrato could

diminish.

As you all know, at 18, and not without difficulty, Haig sat

his bac\ and, making his mind up at last, taking an autonomous

stand as to his aspirations, stood up to Augustus, accosting him

in that forthright way of his:

"Now that I'm all grown-up, this is what I want to do - sing

at La Scala. It's my vocation!"

"It's a long way from Arras to Milan," said Augustus, smiling.

"Labor omnia vincit improbus," said Haig, who was a stubborn

young man on occasion.

"That's what you think, you big bag of wind," said Augustus.

Haig, who had no gift for humour, got angry at this, stamping

his foot and crying:

1 3 7

"Oh, shut up!"

"Now now, my boy," said Augustus, trying to calm him. "I

was just admiring your obstinacy. First things first, though. You

know, don't you, that if you want to triumph against your rivals

you must put in a lot of hard, slogging work? What kind of

world would you call it if just anybody thought to turn up at La

Scala and ask for a major part in a production?"

"But my plan is to go forward and upward rung by rung."

"If that's so, work hard and I'll assist you as much as I can,"

said Augustus in conclusion.

So, from that day forward, his son did nothing but work at

his vocation - practising sol-fa from cockcrow to dusk.

Now, it was a warm, sunny April morning with spring on its

way. Haig, who was taking particular pains with an oratorio by

Haydn, sat down, flagging, worn out, on that billiard board -

or, should I say, on its rim — that sat stagnating not far from his

piano, stagnating, as I put it, for nobody now had any inclination

to play on it.

Idly, as if simply twiddling his thumbs, Augustus was improvis-

ing on a choral work by Anton Dvorak.

Chancing just at that instant, who knows why, to look at

Augustus's billiard board, Haig saw that part of its dust-cloth,

about a third all told, was going mouldy. All along its margin

was a rash of baffling points, whitish in colour and pica-high (as

in typography), abnormal and anamorphous grains, small, flaky

dots, almost circular and almost uniform. A handful had tiny

incrustations, additions or variations, but all had this quality in

common: a structural organisation that struck Haig as arising

organically out of a conscious plan, a goal that was as obvious

as it was blatant: not a random but a signifying sign (using that

word in its structuralist connotation), partially if not wholly akin

to a manuscript or possibly a quipos (a nodal ribbon, of Incan

origin, that functions as an aid to communication).

But that wasn't all. What was most disturbing was that, as

138

Augustus was happily tinkling away at his Dvorak improvisation,

Haig saw this inscription - which had, by his count, 25 points

to start with - actually, fantastically, almost as if in a vision,

micron by micron, angstrom by angstrom, start to grow. Ignorant

of what his son was up to, Augustus was still playing and would

go on doing so till nightfall; but not for an instant did Haig

abandon his scrutiny of that fascinating dust-cloth, staring at it,

or at a portion of it, as if in a condition of hypnosis; and noting,

as soon as Augustus, running out of inspiration at last, brought

his Dvorakiana to a conclusion with a jarringly atonal chord, that

it now had, not 25, but 26 blank points, an additional point

having burst forth, first as an aura, not so much a point as a hint

of a point, and finally as a rash of whitish grains.

"Papa!" says Haig in a cry of anguish.

"Why, what is it, my boy?" asks Augustus, staring at him.

"Look! Look at that, will you! A Blank inscription on a Billiard

Board!"

"What?" Augustus jumps off his stool. "A Blank on a

Billboard?"

"No, no! A billiard board, on its rim - look, that inscription!"

Crouching to focus on it, his brow knotting, Augustus mur-

murs, softly, dully, "Again! Again! Again!"

"What's wrong?" asks Haig, starting to worry at how livid his

papa is turning.

"You and I must fly, my boy, both of us, right now, straight-

away - pronto!"

1 3 9

10

In which you will find a carp scornfully turning down

a halva fit for a king

Augustus finally thought to acquaint his son of his curious situ-

ation. I was on hand during this discussion.

"Till now I said nothing at all to you about a puzzling con-

undrum accompanying your apparition at Azincourt. Today, if

only I could, I would inform you of just what kind of a Dam-

nation it is that has both of us now in its claws. But a Law (a Law,

my boy, unfamiliar to you) would punish any such injudicious

admission on my part. Nobody, not I, not anybody, would wish

to broadcast that flimsy truth, that X, that minimal unknown





quantity, that total taboo, that is transforming - ab ovo, so to

say — all our talk into poppycock and driving all our actions to

distraction. All of us know of this anonymous abomination that

acts upon us without any of us knowing just how it acts upon

us, all of us know, alas, that, by continually barring our path,

continually obliging us to adopt unidiomatic circumlocutions,

roundabout ways of saying things and dubiously woolly abstrac-

tions, continually damning us to a bogus philosophy and its just

as bogus spiritual comfort, a 'comfort' stifling all our crying and

sighing, sobbing and blubbing - all of us know, as I say, that a

wall far too high for any of us to surmount is now imprisoning

us for good and a malignant wrath is thwarting all our approxima-

tions of that missing sign - quixotic approximations born out of

a natural wish to grasp such an amorphous immaculation in our

hands. So, Haig, my boy, you must know that, from this day

1 4 0

on, as in a not too distant past, Thanatos is in our midst, prowling

all around Azincourt.

' T o start with," said Augustus, "I was optimistic about saving

you from that inhuman fatality to which I was bound hand and

foot. But I know now that I can do nothing for you, nothing.

Thus you must go - for what a miscalculation you would commit,

and I would commit, if, risking your all, you had a notion of

staying on in Azincourt. No, my boy, go you must, and by

nightfall!"

Instandy dismissing this proposition as absurd, and unworthy

of a Clifford, Haig said that his "motivation" was unconvincing

and most probably phony and that Augustus was simply trying

to do away with his son!

Oh, poor Douglas was in a sorry condition, almost touchingly

so. "What! You, too, my own blood! Don't think I don't know

what you want - you want to find my body in a ditch, don't

you? God, I was so trusting, I put my faith in you, I would look

up to you with a truly filial admiration - and now I find you

hatching a plot against your own son — a plot as brutal as it's

stupid! And so goddamn obvious it wouldn't fool a child! Don't

you know what candour is? If you truly want to abandon your

own offspring, cry, shout, pull his hair out if you must, but don't

try to justify your cowardly act with such an idiotic alibi!"

"My boy," said Augustus with a groan, profoundly hurt by

such an insulting slight on his honour and probity. But his words

got lost in an uncontrollably loud burst of sobbing.

That night I found out from him that it was his wish to blurt it

all out - that Augustus, in short, if only for an instant, was willing

to inform Haig of his status as a bastard, inform him of Zahir,

of Othon Lippmann, and of Tryphiodorus in his grubby smock,

and of his lustral baths, and so on, and on. But that took guts,

and his valour would finally fail him.

Without saying a word, Haig took a long, last look at his papa;

and, making an abrupt U-turn, ran off out of his sight.

141



I had to know if Augustus, who stood stock still through all

of this, was going to call him back - or if I should.

"No." It was almost his last word on this unusual family drama.

"Drop it, Squaw. Haig must go - thus Haig will go."

"And if Haig won't go?"

"Too bad - it's curtains for all of us!"

All that night Haig would go pacing upstairs and downstairs,

along this corridor and that, into this room and out of that,

through library and study, attic and pantry. Till, finally, at dawn,

Augustus and I (spying on him, I admit) saw him go out, sporting

a woolly cardigan and a thick parka and carrying a small bag in

his hand.

First strolling around Azincourt's grounds, Haig found his way

at last to Jonah's pond, stood thoughtfully for an instant on its

rim and got down on all fours, whisding as follows

which was obviously a signal, as Jonah instandy swam up to join

him. Haig had a long talk with his carp, if I may put it that way,

whilst flipping an occasional pudding crumb at it - crumbs idly

ground up in his hand just as you might grind flour.

And at that point, noisily slamming Azincourt's wrought-iron

portals, and without so much as a last backward look at his papa,

or at yours truly, Haig slowly shrank out of sight. . .

Not out of mind, though. Not knowing his son's location or

situation was driving Augustus crazy. Nor did Haig's carp swim

up if any of us thought to approach its pool, murmuring, "Jonah

. . . Jonah . . ." Augustus and I had hit rock bottom.

Until, that August (this was in March), a postman, knocking

at our door, brought us a most curious communication. Slicing

its top with a pair of scissors, Augustus's initial instinct was to

find out who it was from.

1 4 2

"Hmm. Anton Vowl? Do you know of any such individual?"

"No . . . I can't say as I do."

"Nor I. But this Vowl claims to know all about us. Look at

this."

My Lord,

In April I ran into Douglas Haig Clifford on about six

occasions. Having found out, fortuitously, about his taking flight

from Azincourt, giving you no hint as to his comings and

goings, I thought it my duty to furnish you with a handful of

indications which - such, anyway, is my wish - may aid in

mitigating your all too natural anguish.

On his initial arrival in Paris, Douglas's conduct wasn't

at all, I'm afraid, what you would call morally uplifting:

crawling from bar to bar, from clip joint to clip joint, usually

hanging out with a trio of individuals from a notoriously

slummy, insalubrious part of town - infamous blackguards,

outlaws as unafraid of man as of God, with a long and bloody

history of criminal activity. As if finding an almost diabolic

fascination, a sort of kinky charm, in corruption, your son

took part in hold-ups from which all profits would go to his

unscrupulous pals. It almost brought about his downfall: caught

with his hand rummaging in a lady's bag, Douglas's boss, his

Fagin, if you wish, was run in and would languish for many

months in prison.

A poltroon if not a coward, anyway a bit of a milksop,

your son saw a distinct possibility of his also rotting in jail, a

possibility that wasn't at all to his liking. So, moving out of

that casbah of corrupt cops and cutthroat crooks, Douglas took

a maid's room on Boul'Mich. It didn't boast all mod. cons, but

it had a kind of comfort that was, shall I say, succinct. I don't

know what his bank account was at this point or just how such

a capital had grown. Douglas didn't own a car, but ran up

a colossal bill at his tailor's. His famous sports shirt - which

had, as its "mascot", not an alligator but a tiny portrait of

143

Djougachvili - was, as soon as worn, familiar and

ultra-familiar from Parish Quai Conti to its Club 13, from

Pont Sully to Lipp. In addition, Douglas would follow fashions

maniacally, going to talks by McLuhan on sociology, Lacan on

psychoanalysis and Foucault on philosophy, going to films by

Godard, Truffaut and Chabrol, plays by Anouilh, Giraudoux

and Duras.

All this was to last a month at most, until Douglas,

without a sou, saw that things had got out of hand, that his

riotous high-living was taking its toll, that his physical

constitution was going to pot and that his companions thought

of him as a promiscuous good-for-nothing.

It was at that point that, with his customary brio, your

son took as a political goal - a goal just as transitory as it was

radical - that of transforming his country's social status quo

by abolishing Capital and outlawing Profit. Douglas was a

militant in an "ultra-Albanian" (sic) party which, drawing

practically all of its inspiration from a talk by Hoxha in

Shkodra (or, traditionally, Scutari) about four months ago,

would attack, without discrimination, official Communist

policy and unofficial Maoist ravings. This ultra-Albanian

party, though, didn't last too long. To his chagrin, it took

only six days for it to split up.

At that junction it would dawn on him that, in his

childhood, his papa - you, in short - had casually said to him,

"You know, Albinoni's adagio was so comforting to us at cousin

Gaston's burial", and that a basic motivation for having sown

so many wild oats was to damp down what you might call his

subliminal ambition, his truly instinctual goal, in this world -

singing!

And, my, did your son work hard at music from that

point on! It took him just a month to sign up for a class at

Paris's famous Schola Cantorum, which, I must say, was

mightily struck by his gifts.

Today Douglas is living, if you can call it living, in a

1 4 4

tiny, spartan studio flat, six rond-point du Commandant

Nobody.

Thus, straying but an instant from a straight-and-

narrow path, your son is now assiduously pursuing his

vocation.

This information will aid, I trust, in taking a load off

your mind, a load which, from that day on which Douglas took

to flight, has lain so painfully hard upon you.

Tours truly,

Anton Vowl

Without waiting, Augustus thought to forward to his son a sub-

stantial cash sum, dispatching with it a long communication - a

saga of sorts - that would amply justify his conduct. But nobody

would pick up his cash; and, wishing to find out why, both

anxious and suspicious, Augustus paid a visit not only to Paris's

main postal administration, which told him that no Douglas Haig

Clifford was living at six, rond-point du Commandant Nobody,

but also, naturally, to that Schola Cantorum at which Anton

Vowl had said Haig was studying, inquiring at its administration

if it had a Clifford in any class. On this occasion his luck was in:

Augustus was told that his son was on its list; but was also told

that, coming top of his class in unison singing, Haig had just

flown off to Manhattan's Juilliard School of Music, to study

composition.

Six months go by. Things finally start to calm down. From a

criticism in his Figaro Augustus saw that Douglas had won round

Carignano's intimidating public. Longchamp, a famous musi-

cologist, had him "bound for instant stardom", whilst Gavoty,

his rival, thought of him as "tomorrow's Tito Gobbi". And that

was just in Paris: Hugh Canning, an important British critic, was

to call him a "Gigli with Kim Barg's vocal gifts, Ruffo's passion

and Souzay's intuition".



* * *

145

Now - it was on a Friday, if I'm not wrong - having bought

that day's provisions and arriving from town with, in tow, an

urchin whom I paid a franc or two, to carry a particularly volum-

inous shopping bag - I saw, strolling nonchalandy around our

pond, a man with an air about him that I found just a bit dis-

turbing as, for an instant, I actually took him for Haig. In fact,

as you probably now know, it was Anton Vowl.

Vowl, tall, as straight as a capital I, as slim as a strand of hair,

clad in a panama hat and a drab plastic mac with a tartan collar,

carrying a stick and looking about 20 at most, was, at first sight,

nothing but a normal, charming youth, but a faint hint of - oh,

how shall I put it? - a slightly indistinct, out-of-focus quality

about him instandy put you on your guard. His curious skin

colouring, giving his bulging brow a sickly cast, his languid gait,

half-lurching, half-undulating, his shifty look, his rabbity lash-

bound iris so limpidly bluish I thought I was looking at an albino

- all in all, I saw a kind of twitchy agitation in him which I

found highly anxious-making, as if this poor man was carrying

a cumbrous physical or psychological cargo within him.

I stood in his way, haranguing him according to a traditional

old tribal custom.

"How! Ugh! Man of whitish skin! May your wigwam know

only harmony, may you bury your martial tomahawk, as I shall

bury my own, and may you not talk in fork'd words, for nor

shall I! Now you and I must powwow."

"Ahiyohu," said Vowl, touching his brow with his right thumb

and flicking it against my brow just as a Mohican would, thus

showing his familiarity with our customs. "May a fat and juicy

caribou sit roasting in your cauldron!"

I brought him in, inviting him to sit down and ringing a gong.

In an instant Augustus stood in front of us, saying, "What is it?"

"Anton Vowl," said our visitor with a curt bow. "Last

autumn. . ."

Augustus gruffly cut him short. "I know. Last autumn you

told us all about my son's dissipation, his crazy 'political' activism

1 4 6

and, thank God, his finally choosing a vocation and sticking to

it. Haig, or so I'm told, is at last making his way in this harsh

world of ours, and in Turin, just four days ago, got a standing

ovation in Tristan. It was my wish, you know, to thank you for

your aid, but I had no notion at all as to how I might contact

you. I found no information of that kind on your communication

to us."

A sigh from Anton. "Alas, Mr Clifford, I simply forgot to add

it - a thousand pardons. But, fortuitously passing through this

district, not far from Azincourt, I thought I'd drop by and say

hullo."

"By gad, I'm mightily glad you did!" said Augustus. "If you

don't mind, though, I'll call you Anton from now on - and you,

I trust, will drop that formal 'Mr Clifford'. Just Augustus, all

right? That should simplify things, don't you think?"

"As you wish . . . Augustus."

"Good. Now can I talk you into joining us in a light but

satisfying collation tonight?"

"Hmm, I won't say no."

First putting down his stick, Vowl took off his panama hat

and his mackintosh.

"Now," said Augustus, "why don't you and I pop into my

smoking room for a drink, a cigar and a chat. What do you say,

Anton?"

Coming out into a dark hallway, walking down a narrow corri-

dor and climbing up six stairs, Augustus brought Vowl into

a room with a pair of cosy armchairs in black Morocco and

shiny mahogany, giving him a thick Havana, and not a phony

but a first-class product, as I can vouch, of Cuba's tobacco

plants.

Vowl took a long puff on it, luxuriously savouring its odour.

Proudly showing off all his barman's apparatus, Augustus put

it to him: "A whisky? Scotch? Irish? Bourbon?"

"Hmm . . ." Vowl said doubtfully.

"A gin and tonic? A cocktail? A Bloody Mary? Or possibly just

1 4 7

a Virgin Mary? That's without any vodka, you know. No? A Bull

Shot? A Tom Collins? A dry martini?"

"Actually, you know what I fancy? A blackcurrant drink."

"A kir? Naturally."

Clink-clink.

"Bottoms up."

"Skoal."

"Chin-chin."

At which point, having drunk his kir, Vowl said:

"Now, what you want to find out most of all is how I got to

know your son. Voila. It was a day on which I was idly strolling

around an aquarium - you know, in Paris's Jardin d'Acclimat-

ation. A youth clad in a black cloak, low in spirits, visibly down-

cast, a youth whom you might think of as my own kith and kin,

stood with a curiously languid air, not far off, gazing down into

a pool in which a shoal of carp was swimming about. Out of a

plastic shopping bag this lad brought a funny-looking foodstuff,

part-halva, part-loukoum, that sat crumbling in his hand until it

was thrown to any fish daring to snatch it, notwithstanding con-

stant complaints from a guardian who, on four occasions, would

approach him, yapping at him and snapping at him and pointing

with a shaky, nicotiny hand to a signboard prohibiting visitors

from giving any food to animals, birds or fish.

"It was almost as if this poor boy was waiting in actual anticipa-

tion of a carp rising up and hopping out of its liquid habitat,

just as would a dolphin, to grab a crumb in mid-air. But no carp

did hop out, a fact that cast a pall on his spirits.

"I finally thought to accost him, talking to him of his poignant

but, from what I could work out, totally solitary passion for fish,

carps in particular, which brought from him a frank admission

that in his past, among many casual companions, his only bosom

buddy, so to say, was Jonah his carp, which would swim up on his

murmuring 'Jonah . . . Jonah . . .' or his whistling a complicitous

fishy signal. Not a day would pass, so I was told, without his

carp catching a crumb or two out of his hand, without Douglas,

148

if at all downcast, taking Jonah as his confidant - Jonah, who

wouldn't fail to wink back at him amicably.

'Today, said Douglas, lost in his thoughts, too candid for his

own good and, frankly, just a tiny bit crazy (but his almost sui-

cidal mood was an obvious product of his affliction), it was his

waif conviction that a carp from this Jardin d'Acclimatation would

swim up and (why not?) flick its tail at him in a cordial salutation.

And so, with his last franc, your son had bought a pound of

halva, a sticky concoction for which Jonah had always had a

gluttonous passion, particularly so if it was, as now, royal halva,

Shah's halva, as Iranians call it - of a quality found only in first-

class shops, Fauchon in Paris and Fortnum & Mason in London.

"Brought low in my turn by his sorrowful mood, I stood him

a drink and a ham sandwich in a local snack bar. Douglas was

hungry all right: watching him gulp his food and wash it down

with a Coca-Cola, I thought of a Muslim coming out of

Ramadan, a Ramadan just a tad too long and drawn-out for

comfort.

"Whilst sipping my cappuccino, I was told by your son all I

was avid to know about his work, about his vocation, about you,

Mr Clifford - oh pardon, I should say Augustus - and about

Squaw..."

Augustus, his brow moist with anticipation, cut him off. "What

did Haig say? Was my poor boy conscious of that curious taboo

surrounding his birth?"

"I'm afraid so, old man. Unknown to you, as a child of six,

Douglas - or Haig, as you call him - had caught you on a

fatal morning in his childhood in that soothing, drowsy-making

caldarium in which you lay flat out, cut off from all human con-

tact, in your lustral bath, sinking into Nirvana, murmuring, only

half-consciously, a rambling glossolalia so intriguing to a child's

imagination that, approaching you, Douglas stuck his auditory

organ against that harnass, or its clasp, that you'd put on to hold

you in position, a clasp that, according to him, had a strong

amplifying capacity . . ."

1 4 9

A groan from Augustus: "Ah capiscol capiscol"

"That's right, Augustus, now you know. You unwittingly told

your son all about it. You told him about Zahir, about that

mystical scab in his umbilical cord. And, his wrath against you

brought to its boiling point, a wrath making him as strong and

vicious and unforgiving as a lion - what am I saying? a wrath

driving him almost out of his mind - it was Douglas who would

pull his Zahir off your pinky!"

"So provoking that damnation that's pursuing us to this day!"

"Right again," said Anton Vowl. "Douglas, as I say, was six

at most, but it had all sunk in. Cursing you with all his childish

brio, from now on your son would rancorously hound you, rap-

turous to find you falling, to find things going badly for you,

and in agony, by contrast, if your luck was starting to turn. His

loathing of you was constant - nay, undying!"

"My God! Oh my God!" Augustus was now loudly sobbing,

as if in convulsions, and twitchily crumpling a hanky in his hand.

"Your son's fulmination against you, bastard as Douglas is,

British as Douglas was, is intact to this day. What your son did,

all of it, including his vocation, was part of a monstrous plot

thought up by him to bring about your doom!"

"His vocation?" said Augustus in an anxious murmur. "I'm

afraid I don't follow . . ."

"Which is why," said Vowl chillingly, "I was in such a hurry

to catch up with you."

From his black chamois-bound bag Vowl took a charcoal draw-

ing, not unskilful in its way, of that Uomo di Sasso, clad in an oval

plastron of pallid stucco, who would punish Don Juan not so

much for having slain him as for going so far, committing an act

so sick, as to ask him to lunch. Think, if you will, of a gigantic

Humpty Dumpty.

On its back, in Douglas's handwriting, was a disturbing prog-

nosis: "Augustus, too, is in for it at my apparition, for my blood

is a blot on his honour!"

"This," said Anton Vowl, "is what Douglas would hand in at

1 5 0

my club four days ago. With it was a card announcing that your

son was living in Urbino, singing you-know-who in Don Giovanni

and planning to marry Olga Mavrokhordatos . . . "

I saw Augustus jump up, as if stung by a wasp.

"No! No!" was his cry. "Haig is hurtling to his own dam-

nation!"

151

IV

OLGA

M A V R O K H O R D A T O S

15

In which, untying a long string of fabrications and

falsifications, you will find out at last what sank

that imposing Titanic

"No! No!" was Augustus's cry, as I say. "Haig is hurtling to his

own damnation!"

"Abyssus abyssum invocat\" was Anton Vowl's gloomy con-

clusion.

But as Olga, in a turmoil, is sobbing, almost fainting, Arthur

Wilburg Savorgnan cuts short (as abruptly, in truth, as with a

pair of scissors) Squaw's rich, insinuating narration.

"Ah, such trials and tribulations," says Savorgnan, "and no

solution in sight. Douglas Haig 20 springs ago, Anton Vowl a

month ago, and now Augustus - kaput, struck down by a

cunning form of malignancy that's still prowling around us, a

malignancy which also struck at (for why not? who knows?)

Hassan Ibn Abbou, Othon Lippmann and that poor, unknown

woman who brought Douglas into this world . . ."

"All our sons, saving only Yvon," sighs Amaury Conson.

"But," adds Savorgnan, "isn't it so that all of us now approach

our goal? Can't all of us now grasp its principal factors? What

Squaw has just told us, omitting nothing, not a word, not a fact

- didn't it contain a prodigious opportunity for us to find a way

out of this abomination that's pursuing us?"

"But Douglas didn't know my family background!" Olga

abruptly affirms.

155

"Douglas didn't know it, that's right," says Squaw, continuing,

"nor did you. But Augustus did know it and instantly saw how

important it was:

Of Turkish origin, mainly from Istanbul, living in a palatial

mansion giving out on Thanatogramma and Ailippopolis, this

Mavrokhordatos family (or Mavrocordato or occasionally Maur-

ocordato: its connotation, in a Balkan patois so unknown it's

thought by Saussurian linguists to contain an occult anagram-

matic capacity, is "clad in black armour" or "skilful in black

magic"), this Mavrokhordatos family, I say, would initially fur-

nish its nation's Sultan with a host of loyal icoglans (or vassals).

Thus Stanislas Mavrokhordatos's job was shaving Suliman. Con-

stantin was Ibrahim's doctor. Nicholas was a tardjouman (or

dragoman, as is said nowadays) who, for his particular patron,

Abdul-Aziz, would amass a million or so manuscripts, most

bought at a discount and all glorifying Islam. And his son, Nich-

olas junior, was Hospodar of Banat. In fact, it was said that

Abd-ul-Hamid would hold nothing back from him, for Nicholas

had a truly amazing gift for linguistic obfuscation and would

turn an innocuous communication into such hocus pocus that

nobody could follow it, notwithstanding many signs proving

that his calculations or translations had sprung from an old and

aboriginal canon.

Nicholas, who took as his coat-of-arms a burning Sphinx, was

his patron's right-hand man and had a vision of rising at court

to a rank of Vizir or Mamamouchi. All too soon, though,

Mahmoud III, furious at his Hospodar for usurping so much

authority, and mortally afraid of his laying down his law as far

as Stamboul, summarily got rid of him, whilst commanding his

troops to round up Nicholas's family and submit it to mass cruci-

fixion.

But, sustaining many hardships, that family of yours, Olga,

would cunningly slip through Mahmoud's hands. Arriving at

Durazzo, Augustin, your grandpapa from way, way back, all in

1 5 6

from so much roaming about, thought it a good town in which

to start up as a notary and was soon publishing a monthly journal

notorious for promoting insubordination vis-a-vis his nation's

Sultan. "Albanians," ran his most famous proclamation, "a vic-

torious day will dawn! Kill all tyrants! Hold high a flag dripping

with Ottoman blood! Plough your furrows in it! And march,

march, march!"

Such agitation shook Durazzo to its foundations. Six oustachis

lay slain. "Down with Turks!" or "Down with Islam!" - this cry

was ubiquitous. Its flag was a gonfalon of whitish organdy with,

on its right-hand canton, just that flaming Sphinx that Nicholas

had had as his coat-of-arms. A national political party, Whiggish

in inspiration but anarchistic in its vocation, got busy mobilising

public opinion in its favour; and a man, Arthur Gordon, a distant

cousin of Byron, so it was said (and, as Byron was, both British

and a hunchback), would start galvanising an opposition to it,

composing a National Hymn that was sung by anybody willing

to stand up to a yataghan.

It took thirty-six months to rid Albania of its Ottoman mon-

archs: signing a pact at Corfu, it was to gain its autonomy at

last. Instantly arguing with Cavour about submitting this bud-

ding nation to a quasi-tutorial form of authority, Victoria would

appoint as Consul to Tirana Lord Vanish, a brilliant alumnus of

Oxford for whom Richard Vassall-Fox, third Lord Holland, was

an unofficial sponsor, introducing him at court and fully support-

ing him in his nomination. This Lord Vanish slyly sold Augustin

Mavrokhordatos, who had nothing but admiration for Victoria,

an official British policy of a colonial or half-colonial status as

most apt for Albania, worn out by Turkish domination and totally

unfit for "automancipation"; adding that it was thus important

to allow Britain to act quickly, whilst holding out, to any local

political faction suspicious of its assuming a quasi-dictatorial

authority, a possibility of participating in its civil administration,

and so gradually making Albania a dominion. But it all had

to go quickly, for, if not, it was obvious that Abyssinia or

1 5 7

Austro-Hungary or untrustworthy Italy would jump at such an

opportunity. Won round by Vanish's sophistry, Augustin put

into action a fairly crafty plot. British gold would flow into

Albania. Collaborationists would occupy crucial positions. Third

columnists would go foraging for information, or frankly digging

for dirt, in bistros and poolhalls. A plan of attack of an astonishing

sophistication was drawn up. But, with just two days to go to

D-Day, with a battalion of hussars loyal to Britain languishing

in an army camp in Brindisi, awaiting a signal announcing a total

invasion, manu militari, of Albanian national soil, Augustin was

caught out as a conspirator. A slip-up? A partisan talking off-

guard? A turncoat changing his mind? Or a traitor, a Judas,

informing on his companions-at-arms for thirty coins? Who

knows? It was all so long ago. What I can say, though, is that it

was to prompt an unholy commotion, for nobody in this world is

as chauvinistic as an Albanian. Furious crowds brought thirty-six

public officials to a kangaroo trial, found all thirty-six guilty,

rightly or wrongly, of participating in Augustin's coup, and

strung all thirty-six up on a gigantic scaffold.

As for Augustin, it would finish badly for him: first, a tanning

from a cat-o'-9-tails; following this, two days stuck in a pillory,

with half of Tirana's population cursing him, mocking him, hurl-

ing rotting fruit at him and urinating on him; now an iron clamp

was put around his throat; his skin was cut up in a thousand

ways; a gag was stuck into his mouth right down to his larynx;

finally, surviving asphyxiation, immolation and dowsing with

alcohol, his body was put alight.

Thanks (although "thanks" is hardly an apt word for so atro-

cious a plight) to his outstandingly robust constitution, Augustin

took about a month to succumb. His carcass was thrown to a

pack of wild dogs; but by that point it was so putrid no animal

would touch it.

In Durazzo, things would go almost as badly for all 26 sur-

vivors of Augustin's family. A hunt was on, with rabid nationalists

out for its blood, looting its mansion on four hair-raising

158

occasions, gang-raping Augustin's poor old granny and mass-

acring his sobbing infants.

It took such fanatics just six months to track down and kill all

but a solitary Mavrokhordatos, a Mavrokhordatos, though, so

significant to Albania as a living symbol of his family's past insub-

ordination that his antagonists would go so far as to award a

million hrivnas to his captor. For this survivor was a first fruit

of Augustin's own vigorous loins: his son Albin (ironically, nam-

ing his son so patriotically was Augustin's own wish!).

Miraculously, though, Albin got out of Tirana by night and,

hiding out in a thick, dark, almost fairy-story wood, would lan-

guish in it for all of six springs and six autumns, a half-moribund

survivor, stoking up his loathing for that Albanian tyrant who

had slain his family but also, possibly primarily, for that British

aristocrat who, to his way of thinking, had drawn his poor papa

into a fatal trap.

But a day was to dawn on which, in a forlorn marabout, its

only, and occasional, visitor a farm boy with four mangy goats,

Albin dug up a stash of diamonds, gold doubloons and ingots.

And, in an unwitting imitation of Mathias Sandorf, using this

colossal capital to obtain satisfaction from his family's assassin,

Augustin's son would round up a gang of outlaws, which was

lavishly paid, as much as fifty-fifty a job, so that its loyalty to him

was total.

For his principal lair a rocky fjord was found that his gang

would punningly call "Fillbag Fjord", as Fra Diavolo, a Fran-

ciscan bandit who would hold up landaus and mail wagons and

fill his voluminous bags with booty, had had occasion to pass a

night or two on its banks.

Initiating a conscript into his gang, Albin first brought him to

his fjord, commanding him to drink six straight vodkas in a row.

Having drunk his fill, this conscript took an oath on a crucifix,

promising to do Albin's bidding right up to his final hour in this

world. At which point Albin would tattoo on his right wrist -

with a scratchy gold nib that would imprint a narrow whitish

1 5 9

striation along a man's skin, not drawing blood but so sharp that

no amount of chafing could rub it out - an occult symbol that,

as it turns out, an Albanian cop got a look at during a raid,

although his drawing of it was so clumsy that nobody could

work it out. It was in fact circular in form with a dash running

horizontally across it; or, putting it simply, it wasn't dissimilar

to that signpost stopping cars from going along a particular road.

On occasion an outlaw was caught; and his captors had no

doubt at all, notwithstanding that our Albanian cop's drawing

was fuzzy and indistinct, that a curious whitish symbol on his

wrist was proof of his links with Augustin's diabolic son. In six

springs, though, a trio of his companions, at most, was caught

in this way, whilst Albin had around thirty oudaws, on and off,

at his disposal!

His cohorts would mainly attack official visitors from Britain.

That nation's consul in Tirana saw his mansion blown up again

and again, and any yacht flying a Union Jack in Durazzo harbour

ran a risk of rotting in it for good.

As for Cunard's famous Titanic, if it sank - or, should I say,

was sunk — it was on account, not of any ghasdy glacial collision

by night, but (and this is no myth but a fact I'm willing to

vouch for) of Albin's misdoing, for on board ship, discussing a

possibility of constructing a gigantic rolling mill in a suburb of

Tirana, was an important Anglo-Albanian consortium with capi-

tal from Barclays Bank.

A busy train colliding with a coach, in Quintinshill, a town

not far from Hamilton, halfway from Huntingdon to Oakham,

on 6 August 1918, was proof for Scodand Yard (which instandy

got into a panic) that Albin could actually, if such was his fancy,

attack his rival within his own country. But it was not known at

first that his motivation in carrying out such acts was just for a

bit of fun, or, in his own words, "for a holiday", as, for all his

banditry, it was his custom to insist on a month off in six, going

to Britain, a country that was an abomination to him, for its rain

- soft, drizzly rain that was soothing to his unhappy soul.

160

His action finally driving his British antagonists out of Albania,

in 1919 Albin would turn on his compatriots, making raids on

shops and banks; but, in a country still without any form of

industrialisation, his pickings would usually amount to a handful

of scrawny, hungry lambs for which nobody would pay a ransom.

His capital was dramatically low and his day-to-day bankroll was

now starting to contract.

Not far from Fillbag Fjord, though, was a canyon in which .

would grow in profusion a strain of poppy found only in Albania.

Noting it instantly, and righdy too, as an opportunity for making

colossal profits, Albin found out from a compliant pharmacist

how to turn it into laudanum and, by fumigating that, would

obtain a satisfying form of opium.

Now, as anybody who knows will inform you, opium isn't

worth a brass farthing if you can't control its distribution. And

though such a circuit of distribution was in position, starting

from Ankara, going on, Balkanwards, via Kotor, Dubrovnik or

Split, to Rimini, and from Rimini to Milan, a major crossroads

for all this flourishing traffic, it was a multinational or possibly

supranational organisation (consisting of thirty "big shots" who

would appoint its Mafia, its Cosa Nostra, including Lucky

Luciano, Jack "Dancing Kid" Diamond, Big Italy, Bunny "Gun-

fight" Salvatori and so on, plus six minor affiliations of various

rankings) which had total control of it.

Albin, who was no fool, saw how stupid it was to try and horn

in on such a tighdy knit association; and, with all his usual cun-

ning and daring, took a risk on finding his own dumping ground,

contacting an unsavoury individual who ran a carnival stall in

Milan and who was, so rumour had it, a small fish in that big

Mafia pond, and proposing his opium to him at a discount.

Six months passing in this fashion, and his traffic growing

almost daily, Albin thought it important to appoint in Durazzo

an assistant to run transportation liaison, with opium arriving

from Fillbag Fjord by car, moving to Chiogga on a dinghy and

Milan on a Po canal boat.

1 6 1

So, in Tirana, Albin got to know a man of whom much was

said (notwithstanding that his total rascality was a byword among

Albania's criminal class) of his unfailing loyalty, tact, intuition,

imagination and lightning-quick wits. This man was (and if you

holding this book in your hands don't know by now, all I can

say is you ought to), this man was, I say, our old chum Othon

Lippmann!

Augustus got it all instandy: that Olga's papa - Olga, whom

his son Haig was hoping and actually planning to marry - was

a crony of his own old antagonist, a crony who, in addition, had

an animosity, a rancorous loathing, towards anything British!

"But if so," Anton Vowl had to know, "who was Olga's

mama?"

1 6 2

15

Which will furnish a probationary boost to a not always

almighty dollar ($)

Ah (said Augustus, continuing his narration), it took fully 12

months for us to find that out.

It would so turn out that, whilst amassing a tidy sum from a

traffic in opium that was now running without any major hic-

coughs, and whilst living it up in his fjord as sumptuously as

d'Annunzio in his palazzo, information was brought him that a

famous Hollywood star, Anastasia, was shooting a film in his

vicinity. Albin, thus, who was still looking for an opportunity of

attacking his British rival, and who had an almost irrational loath-

ing of all Anglo-Saxons, including Yanks, laid plans for a punitory

raid on a barbican in which Paramount, Anastasia's studio, had

thought to pitch its main camp.

In a blind fury Albin took a shotgun, a bazooka, napalm,

TNT and as many rounds of ammunition as it was practical

to carry; and with a salivating bulldog as his own guard, and

six of his companions in tow, of a sort that you'd want with

you in a tight spot, grimly struck out to satisfy his thirst for

Anglo-Saxon blood.

On his arrival night was falling, a blazing spring night, with a

hot day slowly fading into dusk.

What Albin saw first was that Paramount had built a trio of

small studios, facing north, on a mountain (in fact, on its foot-

hills), that its production staff was bivouacking not far from a

local tarn and that its cast was living in six gigantic caravans -

four to a caravan, saving Anastasia, who wasn't sharing with any

1 6 3

supporting actor. Noticing a flurry of activity in a studio - with

nobody too minor to muck in, from a stuntman to a storyboard

artist, from a continuity girl to a grip, all proposing fanciful

solutions to a tricky shot that just wouldn't work, consisting as

it did of a group of four walk-on actors who, for want of room,

had to stand so far back that only two at most would stay continu-

ally in focus - Albin told his gang to put a torch to it, to ravish

and kill anybody found in it, man, woman and child, and to bring

it all crashing down, whilst, on his own, approaching a caravan,

a particularly luxurious caravan with a star on its door, obviously

that in which Anastasia was dozing.

Slinking into a snug and inviting boudoir, with a romantic

aura about it making it a fitting spot for an amorous tryst, Albin

saw, in profusion and confusion, low divans, soft, furry rugs and

mirrors all of a dull opacity, as a sign not of sanctimony but of

sophistication. Its air was rich with a lascivious aroma and a lamp

was giving off a faint, soporific glow.

Albin took a turn around this intoxicating room, and, noticing

a thick canopy of rich, grainy damask, hid within it. An instant

was to pass, with Albin imbibing, and almost swooning from, a

fragrant odour that was wafting all about him.

And at last - Anastasia. What an apparition! Slipping off a

kimono of whitish organdy with black polka dots, slowly, tanta-

lisingly, unfurling, from waist to foot, a pair of clinging, cavity-

hugging black tarlatan tights, Hollywood's First Lady, now with

nothing on at all but a chunky gold ring with a ruby stud, lan-

guidly slunk down across an ottoman (a sofa, not a Turk), giving

out, whilst doing so, a profound sigh of physical satisfaction -

not so much a sigh, in fact, as a purr.

For a long instant Albin stood stock still, this ravishing panor-

ama totally transfixing him, its sinuous undulation inspiring part

of his own torso, at first against his will, to start curving outward

and upward.

As for Anastasia's drowsy body, now clad only in its birthday

suit, with skin of a milky purity, glossy and glowing, it was all

1 6 4

unwittingly displaying its charms to him, a chiaroscuro tattooing

its voluptuous forms with a shadowy striation.

Almost foaming at his mouth, his body brimming with lust,

Albin burst forth from out of hiding, crying, "Oh, Anastasia, I

am but a pincushion for Cupid's arrows!"

Instandy, in a flash of inspiration, adapting Solomon's Song

of Songs, Albin thought up an impromptu hymn to glorify

Anastasia's luminous and numinous physical form:

Thy body is a glorious yacht aboard which I will sail to distant

lands, a sloop, a brig rolling and pitching, tossing as I do

turn upon it,

Thy brow is a fort against which I will launch an attack,

a bastion, a rampart which my amorous transports, unruly

as a north wind, will bring tumbling down, a triumphal

arch through which it is I who will march in triumph,

Thy soft auditory conch, a spiral, a convolvulus, a morning

glory abounding in twists and turns about which I so look

forward to losing my way,

Thy lash, a vibration of a wink and twinkling of a

blink,

Thy mouth, an atoll of crimson coral into which, willingly

risking, all but asking for, suffocation, I will swim down,

down, down,

Thy throat, a pallid prison, a paragon of a caparison, a

tight collar for my strangulation,

Thy arm, a guard, a hoist, a staff of passion, a loop of a

lasso with which to corral my carnality,

Thy hand, an animal with four digits and a thumb, a

sampan and a skiff, a dory and a catamaran, floating, tack-

ing, drifting at random on my languorous body and on thy

own,

Thy back, a coast, an alluvial plain, a salt marsh, a smooth

165

couch, a rolling vista, an arc curving with bliss's sting and

spur,

Thy skin, O thy skin, a chamois sofi as swan's-down without

which I cannot go on living, a downy buff upon which I will

go to my tomb writing that holy word "Anastasia",

Thy flank, a rippling rill, an inconstant link in thy carnal

chain, a bodily boundary which I will accost first of all, a

primary port of call for that cockboat sailing forth from its

harbour in my lap,

Thy tummy-button, a kaolin always out-of-joint, a tiny

jug which I will fill up with my loving libations,

Thy loins, a coat-of-arms of an unknown armorial, a dark,

humid umbilicus, a door which I will unlock with my tumid

rod,

Thy buttocks, two round and rosy apricots, a plump pod, a

fruit containing a pip worth shaking out,

Thy bush, thy Burning Bush which I must know how to

confront, as did Christ, with valour and without timidity,

thy bush, holy pubis, tufts of passion, soft pinions, soft piping,

soft quills, soft fair hairs, as of a stork or a flamingo, Shangri-

la of physical and spiritual ardour,

Thy furrow, thy lotus furrow, furrow of oblivion, along

which all but my passion will vanish, which will swallow up

all but my lust, thy furrow of Nirvana, thy moist furrow in

which I will pass along, pass out and pass away, into which

I will go, born, ailing, dying, again and again, of a human,

all too human, bliss,

Thy bud, in which all will pass away, thy bud, that final

bastion in which I will confront my own total absorption, my

own abolition, my own annihilation, in that passion that will

last for always, in that last spasm that you and I will know

all too soon, our souls singing in total unison, in bliss or

oblivion, in that night that is a void, that instant of infinity

in which you and I will turn into an animal with two backs!

1 6 6

Thus sang Albin who, now baring his own body, hastily casting

off all his clothing, sprang, gluttonously, as if starving, as if dying

of thirst, on top of Anastasia.

"What!" said an indignant Anton Vowl. "It was against Anas-

tasia's will!" (But, you know, Vowl was still a callow youth, in

his first flush of manhood, who, in addition, had grown up in a

puritanical Catholic family, had had his first communion and his

confirmation and had, on occasion, thought of joining a

Franciscan community.)

"Oh no," said Augustus, smiling, "hardly that."

For, in fact, Anastasia, looking up at him, instandy took a fancy

to this charming rascal, willingly giving in to him and, whilst Albin

was slowly broaching ad limina apostolorum, murmuring:

"Ohhh -1 long had an itch for a brigand, a bandit, an outlaw!"

Was Albin still in hiding from his country's cops?

"You can say that again," said Albin.

"A substantial sum, I fancy, for bringing you into custody?"

"And how!" said Albin.

"How much?"

"A million hrivnas."

"How much is that in dollars?"

As a dollar was worth about thirty-two hrivnas, Albin briskly

ran up a rough calculation, taking inflation into account, and

said, just a bit boastfully, "Thirty-six thousand."

"That is a lot," said an admiring Anastasia, who, succumbing

to his approach, winking at him flirtatiously if not actually sal-

aciously, was to add, murmuring as if in a swoon: "Now go to

it, my Don Juan, my Casanova, my Valmont, my Lothario!"

It was as if Virginia Mayo was succumbing to Richard

Widmark, Rita Hayworth to Frank Sinatra, Joan Crawford to

Cary Grant, Kim Novak to Kirk Douglas, Gina Lollobrigida to

Randolph Scott, Anna Magnani to Marlon Brando, Liz Taylor

to Richard Burton, or Ingrid Thulin to Omar Sharif.

Was Anastasia, though, truthful to Albin or simply trotting

out an old Hollywood film script, word for word?

1 6 7

Why ask? With such wanton tickling, cuddling, fondling, lick-

ing and kissing going on, it was hard to think of as lubricious a

mating, as jjalant a coupling, as libidinal a mutual loving.

But whilst a goatishly rutting Albin was ravishing Anastasia just

as (if you know your classical mythology) Apollo had had his

way with Iris, Adonis with Calypso, and Antinous with Aurora,

his gang, complying with his wish, was attacking that studio

adjoining Anastasia's caravan, blowing it sky-high with a ton of

TNT, illuminating a pitch-dark night with its conflagration and

making an almighty Doomsday din. It was a sort of Walpurgis-

nacht. Its poor occupants, working hard at adjusting a shot or

simply hanging about, as you do in film studios, ran this way

and that, shouting and howling in panic. Most got it instantly,

struck by a burning plank, by a scorching whirlwind, by a boiling

rock torn out of its soil, by a spray of stinging-hot, skin-riddling

coals, or by a smoking brand whooshing up as if from out of a

volcano.

Notwithstanding all that was going on about him, notwith-

standing his gang's act of criminal arson and its nightmarishly

grisly impact on a group of Hollywood artists on location, noth-

ing could distract Albin from a form of amatory arson that was

just as hot if, naturally, not as homicidal.

So it was that, whilst his troop of oudaws, faithfully carrying

out his instructions, was riding back to its fiord, with an inward

glow of satisfaction at a job brought off without a hitch, Albin

was still billing and cooing, still spooning and smooching, in

pursuit of his passion.

It would last four days, all in all. At which point, it would

abruptly occur to Anastasia, shying back from Albin's lips and

warding off his warm, clinging arms, that, to fulfil a contract

drawn up by Paramount (which was paying its most popular star

a cool fifty thousand dollars) and William Morris (which would

naturally want its customary 10%), it was vital to finish shooting

its forthcoming film.

168

Alas, it was all an illusion! Not a survivor, in production or

cast! As for Paramount's filmic apparatus - totally kaput! Not a

Nagra, not a truck! A Paillard? Fit only for a junkyard! A pair

of sound booms? Nothing but a stack of scrap iron, twisting

innards, burnt-out casings, piping hot piping! A Dolly? It was

now, in its way, a work of art, a work of art by an avant-gardist

sculptor, a David Smith, say, drawing his inspiration from Naum

Gabo or Baldaccini!

Anastasia was thus out of a job, and was so distraught that

Albin, who was not a confrontational sort of chap and didn't

know how to go about consoling anybody in such a situation,

simply took off, abandoning, you might almost say marooning,

his inamorata, first saying, though, with an intimidating frown:

"God willing, it may not occur, but if a baby is born to us, a

fruit of our loins, a product of our passion, you must call it

Albin," adding, "for, if not, I, Albin Mavrokhordatos, last of my

clan, will pass away — and my Damnation will pass away too!"

1 6 9

15

In which you will know what Vladimir Ilich

thought of Hollywood

So Albin took off, and would find out, from a postcard arriving

at his fjord, that Anastasia had got as far as Cattaro in Italy,

instandy making contact with an ambassador from Washington.

But, having caught 'flu during what was by all accounts a long and

arduous trip, our star's right lung was now ailing from catarrhal

inflammation.

On studying a thick batch of X-rays, a local consultant finally

said that Anastasia would pull through only by giving up film-

making for good and all. In truth, notwithstanding "Actors

Studio" histrionics and faindy Stanislavskian tics, it was now

common gossip in Hollywood that Anastasia probably hadn't

much affinity with sound-film acting. (All of this was occurring

round about 1928 and it took a solitary film, an "all talking, all

singing, all dancing" musical with A1 Jolson, for Fox, MGM,

Columbia and Anastasia's own studio, Paramount, instantly to

opt for this most radical transformation in film history.)

Thus Anastasia, a vamp who had got Farouk to slim down

and Baudouin to plump up, a vamp who had had Taft sighing,

Wilson crying and Ramsay MacDonald lying, a vamp for

whom Winston Churchill had bought a gigantic box of Havana

cigars and of whom, in a radio broadcast from Moscow, Vladimir

Ilich Ulianov had said no opium was as fatally noxious, brought

to its abrupt conclusion a filmography so uniformly brilliant, so

fantastically lustrous, it was absurd that it should finish in this

way. Six Oscars! Four Lions d'or\ Ah, sic transit Gloria Mundil

1 7 0

It was a traumatic shock for thousands of film buffs. A fan

club in Iron Mountain, in Wisconsin, not far from Michigan,

took poison to a man, a young Kabuki actor in Tokyo would

commit ritual hara-kiri in Anastasia's honour and a Jamaican

sailor took it into his mind to jump off Radio City Music Hall,

in midtown Manhattan.

Anastasia was to languish for six months in a sanatorium in

Davos. Rumour has it that Thomas Mann, catching sight of this

still ravishing wraith of a woman strolling about its grounds,

said, "If only I'd known Anastasia whilst writing my Magic Moun-

tain . . . What a companion for Hans Castorp! How pallid Claw-

dia Chauchat is by comparison!"

Finally Anastasia would go into labour but, by now fatally ill

with TB, would pass away in childbirth, saying, in a last painful

gasp, "You must call my baby Olga . . . Olga Mavrokhordatos

. . . To Olga I assign a substantial patrimony . . . all of what I

own, but for a donation of fifty thousand dollars to this

sanatorium and its administration . . . And you, for your part,

must contract to bring up my only child until . . . until its

majority . . ."

Thus Olga would grow up in Davos, knowing nothing of

Albin, in a chic sanatorium with only counts and viscounts, maha-

rajahs and maharanis, lordships and ladyships, for company . . .

Anton Vowl cut in. "But what about Albin?"

"It was in 1931 that Albin found out that Olga was living at

Davos; and, avid to contact this unknown offspring of his, took

off in a flash, forcing Othon Lippmann, who was now his right-

hand man, to follow him. Though it had to zigzag through lots

of mountainous twists and turns, Albin had his Bugatti bowling

along flat out, full blast. . . but actually didn't turn up at Davos."

"Why not?" said a dumbstruck Anton.

"I was told by Othon that, at about two-thirds of his way to

Davos, not far from Innsbruck, Albin, virtually abandoning him,

told him to stay put in his Bugatti, informing him of his own

obligation to call on a man in that vicinity. Spying on Albin,

171

watching him go into a vacant-looking hangar, Othon hung

about all day and, that night, paid a visit to it in his turn . . .

and found nobody in it but Albin, who was lying, all but bathing,

in his own blood, now fit only as food for worms."

"Ho hum," said Anton with a sardonic grin. "A bit of a tall

story, if you want my opinion."

"That's just what I said. In fact, I'd put my bottom dollar on

it that it was Othon who'd slain him for his loot."

"But did Othon go on to Davos to join up with Olga?"

"Natch. And no doubt with a kidnapping job bubbling in his

mind. A kidnapping from a sanatorium — that was typical of such

a villain! Othon did in fact talk to its administration, but had no

luck with Olga. In fact, a strong hint was thrown out that his

'rights' in this affair had no basis in Swiss law and that any

insisting or importuning on his part would land him in jail -

without passing Go, as Monopoly would put it."

"And so," said Vowl, summing up, "Olga still didn't know

what this 'Mavrokhordatos affair' was all about?"

A sigh from Augustus.

"That's right. What's important to grasp, though, is that

nobody at all was conscious that a form of Damnation was cling-

ing to that family and always would do. Olga was to grow up

without having an inkling of what an infamous and horrifying

jinx it was."

On Othon finally giving up his own malignant ghost (and natur-

ally told by him of this ghastly Law that clung to our family and

sworn at by him for unwittingly allowing my Zahir to vanish),

I would go to Davos in my turn, on four occasions, hoping to

do away with Olga by my own hand, as an act of human charity.

But, by now, Olga was too old to go on living in a sanatorium.

An informant told of a woman conforming to Olga's physiog-

nomy living in Locarno. I took a train to Locarno. A phony

alarm! I was told, again, that Olga had flown off to London to

buy a flat in Mayfair. So I instantly got going, my train arriving

172

at Victoria Station just as Olga's was pulling out, bound for

Frankfurt. I rang up a diplomat in Frankfurt to whom I was

known, asking him to shadow Olga until my arrival. But, ironic-

ally, my diplomat pal, an idiot whom I had thrown out of his

job as quickly as you could say 'Jack Robinson', saw fit to stamp

Olga's passport with a visa for Stockholm, in which city, worn

out, I simply quit looking.

"And that," said Augustus in conclusion, "is why I said Haig

hadn't got it. My poor son thought, with all his oaths and insults,

to damn his papa. But, in wishing to marry Olga, it's actually

Haig who's going towards that Damnation, not I, it's Haig who's

sinking fast into that machination that is afoot all around us!

Now, his first night is on . . . ?"

"Monday," said Anton Vowl, consulting an almanac.

"Four days . . ." said Augustus doubtfully. "Still, I think my

Hispano-Suiza is up to it. But only by starting now, this instant.

To Urbino! You and I must draw my son back from that void

that's yawning insidiously on his horizon! So hurry up! Put a

sock in it! Chop chop! AndiamoV

1 7 3

15

For which many will no doubt claim that it adds much

that is crucial to our story

"All right, all right," said Anton with conviction. "You and I will

go to Urbino, driving all day and all night, you driving whilst I

catch forty winks, and so on. But I think it important to put our

trip off for a day or so, till tomorrow morning, say, for our first

priority is to find out what Douglas was clumsily trying to say

by 'a blank inscription on a billiard board'."

"But why, for crying out loud? What has my billiard board

got to do with all of this?" said Augustus, who was itching to

start off.

"It was, was it not, in your billiard room that that Damnation

now stalking your son was born. And a crucial point subsists in

this affair, a point on which, to this day, nobody has any infor-

mation. You know that Douglas took your Zahir, right?"

"Right."

"What you don't know is what Douglas did with it!"

"But you . . . that inscription .. ." said Augustus, blanching.

"You may think I'm crazy, but that inscription will finally

inform us - such, I should add, is my wish, not a fact - why

such a Damnation clings to your Zahir."

"But who's going to work it all out?"

"I am!" said Vowl triumphantly. "Long ago I got Douglas to

draw a rough diagram and I'd study it for hours and hours at a

sitting, only stopping to consult with a famous cryptologist in

Paris. Today, if I can hardly claim to know what it's all about,

I'm willing to say that I harbour a suspicion or two that ought

1 7 4

to furnish us with a solution, total or partial - or, at worst, iron

out most of its complications.''

"Okay, you win."

So, grudgingly going along with him, Augustus took Vowl

into his billiard room.

Approaching Augustus's billiard board, running his hand along

its inscription and applying a magnifying glass to it, Vowl took

stock of its rash of curious whitish dots.

"Aha," said Vowl at last in a murmur, "I was right. It's a

Katoun."

"A Katoun?"

"Katoun, or Katun - a noun indicating a scrap of graffiti

common to various Mayan civilisations, principally that in Yuca-

tan. It's a fairly basic modus significandi, particularly practical in

transcribing sayings, myths, almanacs, liturgical writings and

inscriptions found on tombs or on triumphal archways.

"It consists mostly of odd bits of information (invariably

spanning a rigorous chronology of thirty springs), information

about months, lunar months, canicular days, royal birthdays,

migrations, cardinal points and so on. On occasion, though,

you'll find, not a book, but, say, a tiny chunk of narration surpass-

ing its strict transitivity and actually aspiring to what you and I

might think of as an artistic quality . . ."

"So, knowing that it's a Katoun, you can automatically work

out its signification?" said Augustus, who was dying to find a

solution.

"Good Lord, no," said Vowl, smiling, "our work is cut out for

us - till tomorrow morning, anyhow." (It was now approaching

midnight.) "Its signification will only show up - if it shows up at

all - as soon as I can fathom by what path of action, by what

cryptological algorithm, I can transform it from a subscript

(which is to say, this inscription as it now stands) via a transcript

into a final translation.

"But what I must first try to grasp is what kind of axiomatis-

ation such a transcription is bound up in. For, you know," said

175

Vowl, smoothly going on, "most of its complications will spring

from this plain fact: that you and I cannot, obligatorily, work it

all out. Today, at most, I can grasp, oh, about a fifth of it - and,

by dawn tomorrow, you'll know, giving or taking a word, only

as much as a third."

"All right, but do you think, notwithstanding so major an

unknown factor, that you can unlock what signal it holds for

us?"

"Why not? Cryptology is not a myth. It's not a form of witch-

craft. Think of Champollion or of Laranda, Arago, Alcala, Riga,

Riccoboni, von Schonthan and Wright. In truth, a signification

will show up, but, I must say to you, distandy, in a slighdy cloudy

futurity, in a slightly vacillating cloud. I'll grasp it by association.

"Actually, I would count on a trio of distinct strata of clarifi-

cations:

"First, you and I look at it casually and think of it as just

confusing poppycock, foolish mumbo jumbo - noticing, though,

that, as a signal, it's obviously not random or chaotic, that it's

an affirmation of sorts, a product of a codifying authority, submit-

ting to a public that's willing to admit it. It's a social tool assuring

communication, promulgating it without any violation, accord-

ing it its canon, its law, its rights.

"Who knows what it is? A bylaw? A Koran? A court summons?

A bailiffs logbook? A contract for purchasing land? An invitation

to a birthday party? A poll tax form? A work of fiction? A crucial

fact is that, my work advancing, what I'll find rising in priority

isn't its initial point of application but its ongoing articulation

for, if you think of it, communication (I might almost say 'com-

munion') is ubiquitous, a signal coursing from this individual to

that, from so-and-so to such-and-such, a two-way traffic in an

idiom of transitivity or narrativity, fiction or imagination, affabul-

ation or approbation, saga or song.

"Thus, first of all, is Logos and its primacy, that talking 'it' of

our inscription: putting it baldly, you and I know that it's talking

to us but still don't know what it's saying. Now, assuming that

1 7 6

it's a fictional work, or part of a fictional work, what I must look

for is a group of banal, common, familiar signs surrounding it,

by which I can start assuming, unambiguously, that a work of

fiction is in fact what it is: a handful of individuals in conflict, in

confrontation with a curious sort of fatality, imagining, right up

to its last paragraph, that this fatality is actually a fortuity, a

product of nothing but downright bad luck. An individual is

slain, now two, now four, and now all six, with a haunting strand

of plot working its way through a mosaic of motifs so confusing

that you and I can't possibly summon up a vision of its totality

from A to Z, its organic unity, so confusing that our wish to

find a significant sign in it is simply an illusion.

"But, gradually, with our starting to grasp that a law is structur-

ing its composition, this initial confusion of ours will turn to

admiration - admiration at how, with such a niggardly grammati-

cal, syntactical and punctuational construction, with a vocabulary

cut down to a minimum by so many constraints of scission,

omission and approximation, such an inscription can still contain

so much information.

"Dumbstruck by this amazing capacity that it has - whilst

outwardly avoiding a signification which it knows is taboo — to

affirm it anyway, articulating it by a cunning bias, shouting it out

as if from a rooftop, formulating it by association, by allusion, by

saturation - dumbstruck, as I say, you and I, although still not

totally grasping at this point what it's saying to us, can at last

boast of proving its validity as a signal, as a communication.

"From which point it's but a hop, skip and a jump to grasping

why so much was built on so rigorous a constraint, so tyrannical

a curb. It was born out of a mad and morbid whim: that of

wholly satisfying a fascination with linguistic gratuity, with pro-

scription and subtraction, that of avoiding any word striking its

author as too obvious, too arrogant or too common, of according

its sijjnifiant just a gap, a slit, a loop, so narrow, so slim and so

sharp, that you instantly grasp its justification.

"Thus, as though by transmuting a quality into its contrary,

1 7 7

from omission is born affirmation, from constraint is born auton-

omy, from obscurity is born light!"

"I would applaud your diagnosis," said Augustus, "if I had any

faith in its conclusion. But now you must hurry. My watch is

ticking away, night is falling fast, and from Azincourt to Urbino

it's about 28 Indian kadams, which is to say, 8 nagis or 18

kuppodutur ams!"

"I know," Vowl said simply. "Don't worry, I'll go to it, plung-

ing up to my waist into all this murky arcana."

At first, though, Vowl said to yours truly, "Squaw, go into

Augustus's atrium. In my bag you'll find a stack of six books.

Bring it to us, will you, it's vital for our work."

So I did as I was told and brought Vowl back his stack of

books. It was an amazing anthology of all things Mayan: a

translation of Popol-Vuh by Villacorta-Rodas, R. P. Sahagun's

transcription, in its totality, of Machu-Pichu and, most particu-

larly, a trio of Chilam-Balam - Ixil, Oaxaca and Uaxactun.

Transcribing it took right until dawn. His armpits growing

moist and malodorous, Vowl soon had his cardigan off and was

busy working in his shirt, whilst, to cool him down, I'd bring

him, variously, a glass of Chardonnay, a tomato sandwich, a

cappuccino and a whisky-and-soda. I would pick my way through

a mass of rough drafts and scorings-out, which Vowl, chain-

smoking, sucking cigar upon cigar, coughing fit to bust his guts,

spitting up saliva and pulling his hair out, had thrown away in

dissatisfaction.

It was painfully slow going. Vowl would blow his top, coming

out with disgusting cuss-words, boiling, almost frothing, with

irritation at his own stupidity, gnashing his fangs in fury, turning

a bright crimson colour and on occasion murmuring a word so

inaudibly I just couldn't catch what it was, an odd sort of mantra

that was said again and again, monotonously. It was all a bit

alarming - and a load of codswallop, in my opinion.

But, finally, at cockcrow:

178

"Ouf!" said a hot and sticky Vowl, obviously worn out but

glowing with satisfaction and giving Augustus (who had to put

on a lorgnon to study it) a scrap of cardboard with 25 curious

graffiti on it, adding, "I thought for an instant I wasn't going to

crack it."

"What do you know," said Augustus cursorily glancing at it,

"it's just as baffling as it was to start with!"

"Oh, do calm down, will you," said Vowl. "You'll grasp it in

just an instant. Look, Katouns usually draw from a pool of six

local patois. In this particular inscription it's a Chiapas patois,

known as 'Lacandon', which, so tradition has it, was brought

into play mosdy in soothsaying Katouns. Its transcription is

known, but not its pronunciation, for, as a morphology fit only

for anticipation, divulgation or vaticination, it's invariably full of

ambiguous locutions and syntactical shortcuts of a kind that only

clairvoyants or shamans can unlock . . ."

Augustus anxiously cut in.

"But if that's . . . What will you . . . ?"

"I'm coming to that, Augustus, so just shut up, will you. I

know of a handful of ad hoc solutions that will assist us:

"Its complication arising principally from its 'a-vocal' quality

as a jargon (that's to say, it's a jargon with no history of vocalisa-

tion), and thus from an implicit contradiction with any notion

of pronunciation, by choosing, in imitation of that which I do

know:

Ba va sa ka ma sar pa ta par da

Bi vi si ki mi sir pi ti pir di

Bo vo so ko mo sor po to por do. . .

a matrix simulating transcription, I think that I can, by logic,

intuition or imagination, polish up my original rough

draft."

Vowl instandy got busy, chalking up his 25 signs on a black-

board and coming up with this:

1 7 9

Ja Gra Va Sa La Da La Ma Tan

A Ma Va Jas 'A Ta Krat' Da

La Pa Sa Ya Ra Da Ra Cha

This didn't calm Augustus, who couldn't fathom a word of it

and who said in a fury, "For all I know, it's in Afrikaans or

Sanskrit. What I do know, though, is that it isn't in any way

stimulating my imagination!"

But, trying to mollify him, Vowl told him that his goal was

at last in sight and that by noon Augustus could count on having

a translation of his Katoun.

Chasing us both out of our own billiard room, Vowl also said

that nobody should disturb him now, at any cost, for four hours

or so. So, whilst Augustus got busy polishing his Hispano-Suiza,

oiling it, filling it up with gas, fixing it up for its forthcoming

dash down to Urbino, I was hard at work rusding up a filling

lunch for all of us.

And Anton Vowl was as good as his word, surfacing punctually

at midday and approaching Augustus with a scrap of cardboard

in his hand.

"You want to know what that blank signal on a billiard board

is all about? Voila."

"Oh, you talk us through it," said Augustus, subsiding into a

sort of ghastly languor. "I'm in a total funk about it all."

Thinking of that instant now, I call to mind a sky that was

luridly clouding up, a horizon that was almost totally in shadow,

a build-up of alarming nimbostratus, as if a storm was about to

burst, and a gust of wind abruptly rising, smashing a fanlight

window and causing us all to jump.

I think I said, if inaudibly, "Oh, God, I'm so afraid," and I

saw that Augustus was mumbling, stumbling, possibly praying.

At which point Augustus and I finally, and in toto, got to know

that inscription that was so damning to us. Vowl's articulation

was horribly icy and cutting, chopping up what was said into

1 8 0

small hard chunks of information and talking so distinctly I

almost thought Vowl wasn't talking at all but spitting a host of

razor-sharp darts at poor Augustus - darts that would sting him

and prick him, drill him and nail him down, that, in short, would

crucify him.

It was all long, long ago, my hair is now gray and straggly,

but his words still haunt my soul:

I POLISH MY LAW ON A CLIFF,

IMPRINTING "AN I FOR AN I"

IN A ROCK'S TRITURATION

An instant - an instant as long as an infinity - was to pass.

Nobody said anything. A gigantic wasp was buzzing around that

scrap of cardboard that Vowl was brandishing.

"Now do you know what it's all about?" said Vowl softly.

"Actually," said Augustus just as softly, "what it calls to mind

is Arthur Gordon Pym. In particular, its closing paragraph."

"I must say I hadn't thought of it," said Vowl, "but I'd go

along with that."

"And my principal misgiving in this affair," Augustus would

go on, "is that this inscription, too, is bristling with bad luck."

"But can any of us do anything about it?"

"That's what I found so alarming. What I saw in this 'rock's

trituration' was a mould of stucco which, on Monday, my poor

son will wrap about his body. Thus will this Law of 'an I for an

I' kill him! Can't you grasp it - Haig is lost as soon as Karl Bohm,

his conductor, pours him into that monstrous dicky. That's why

you and I must fly to Urbino, arriving at its palazzo by Monday

night!"

So, with Vowl in tow, Augustus quickly got into his Hispano-

Suiza and took off in a flash.

Alas, as you know, notwithstanding Augustus's driving night and

day, without pausing for a snack, or a drink, or forty winks, his

throbbing brow practically stuck to his car's front window, such

1 8 1

was his fixation on arriving in Urbino by dusk, it was all in

vain. Bad luck was to dog his path in a trio of small towns. At

Aillant-sur-Thonon six cogs would jam, blocking up a joint; at

Isonzo his dynamo would burn out, ruining an accumulation

circuit; and, to cap it all, at San Laranda, his ignition was to

grow so hot it would actually fall apart in his hands!

Arriving at Urbino's ducal palazzo, and told that Haig had put

on what you might call his iron, or stucco, lung, Augustus's plan

was to go to his son's changing room and instandy cut him out

of it; but a doorman wouldn't allow him in and sat him down

on a foldaway chair in a back row upstairs. (It was standing room

only.) Augustus had to stay put on that chair throughout Don

Giovanni, downcast, sobbing, oblivious of Mozart's ravishing

music.

Finally, a spotlight would focus on Haig, transforming him

into a pallid, marmorial monolith of light. Ah! but you all know

what was to occur at that fatal instant: Augustus's son would

stub his foot, trip up and fall. . . and his mould would split from

top to bottom . . .

"No!" Olga has coldly cut in. "A fact is missing from your

account, an important, a vital fact. You told us of Douglas's doom

just as Augustus told us of it on his arrival at Azincourt, whilst

transporting his son in a shroud.

"But, in informing you, Augustus was to omit a crucial point.

Was it from a lack of information? Or a psychological blackout?

Or did Augustus act unwittingly, assuming such a load of guilt

for his conduct as to wish to block it at all costs from his conscious

mind? I couldn't say. But Anton Vowl also saw Douglas's appar-

ition, Vowl saw it all and got it all!"

"But saw what. . . ? got what. . . ? if not that Haig lost his

footing, falling down as hard as a baobab cut in half?" asks

Squaw, who may truly want to know or is simply trying to show

Olga up.

Olga laughs harshly, unsmilingly. "Saw that Augustus, worn

1 8 2

out by his long trip down through Italy, full of misgivings and

hardly in command of his own actions - Augustus, as I say,

watching Douglas, abruptly stood up, giving out such a loud,

fortissimo cry that it brought about his son's collision with a

column and his final fatal fall!"

1 8 3

15

On running a risk by asking for a fish farci

"My God!" Squaw shouts out, visibly aghast at such an accusation

and instandy going into attack against Olga.

"Who told you such a foul bit of dirt? It was a mishap, I know

it. Blood will out! It's natural that you, a Mavrokhordatos, should

spout such filth! Why, it was your papa who put a jinx on us all!

All of us, facing damnation from your family!"

"Oh, do stop your squawking, Squaw!" says Olga. "It's just

shock that's making you blurt out such stupid things."

But, stubbornly continuing, Squaw adds with a sly, shifty grin,

"So why was it Augustus who had to cry out? Who knows if

it wasn't you? That's right, how do I know - how do any

of us know - it wasn't your cry that was so loud and sharp

as to kill poor Haig? Couldn't you too claim a similarity with a

protagonist in Don Giovanni? And didn't you too go to Urbino

to watch it?"

"You know, Squaw has a point," sighs Savorgnan. "Anybody

at all, Augustus as much as Olga, Anton Vowl as much as a

woman, say, sitting in front of him, had an opportunity of throw-

ing Douglas off his guard with an untoward cry, thus provoking

that tragic fall of his. So how do you know, Olga, that it was in

fact Augustus who did it?"

"I was told all about it by Anton Vowl," says Olga calmly.

"Vowl saw it occur. And, talking about it, Vowl would actually

claim to know by intuition that, in that stucco mantrap of his,

Douglas was such a startling, such a disturbing, apparition that,

1 8 4

r

as though in imitation of a dying lion or an albatross brought

down and slain by a drunk sailor, Augustus was bound to cry

out. As soon as Douglas was spodit, Vowl saw Augustus turn

livid, his lips shaking; actually saw a roar forming in his throat.

Vowl's plan was to jump up and try to stop him from airing it,

but Augustus's cry would halt him in his tracks, for it was a truly

inhuman cry, a cry of Astaroth, of a Sphinx flapping its wings

on a clifltop, a jjrtdo indiavolato roaring up from his lungs. Doug-

las lost his footing, collapsing as though struck down by a

tumultuous gust of wind. And all that confusion and commotion

that was naturally to follow, all that hubbub and din, would

drown out Augustus's initial cry."

I, too, said Olga (continuing this dramatic account) would almost

pass away as Douglas did. I was watching it a l l . . . As I saw him

fall, a long furrow zigzagging across his mould, I sank swooning

into a profound coma. I was put on a couch, on which I lay,

practically dying, for six days. At which point a doctor brought

to my nostrils a product with a strong odour of ammonia. Finally

coming to, I found Vowl sitting in my room, clasping my hand

in his. And it was by him that I was told, bit by bit, in dribs and

drabs, what was going on. Having snuck into a local hospital,

in which his son was laid out, Augustus took his body away

without obtaining any authority to do so. I just had to go to

Azincourt.

"No," I was told by Vowl, "you, too, can claim no authority

in this sordid affair. Augustus would kill you as quickly and as

unthinkingly as a wild animal, a jaguar, say - Augustus would

kill anybody of your family, for it is, in his opinion, a Mavrokhor-

datos who was his son's assassin!"

So I was told all about my family, all about that Damnation

with which its history is bound up. But, instandy contradicting

him, I said with a sob in my throat:

"It was Augustus who brought about his son's doom by giving

out such a horrifying cry. Thus will I now carry out that Dam-

185

nation that I carry within my soul, for it was that man's fault,

and only his fault, that I am now a widow!"

For six springs, Anton would constandy tag along, faithfully

following in my trail. I didn't ask him to. I didn't want him to.

What I did want, in fact, was to catch a train to Azincourt and

kill Augustus by my own hand. But I was starting to find that

Anton had a curious aura about him - a sort of charisma,

you might say. I found I simply couldn't do without his kindly

disposition and his unfailing affability. I was about to lay

down my arms, capitulating unambiguously to his natural gift

for consolation. I found him awfully amusing and found, too,

in his company, that I wasn't now thinking so much of

Douglas's charms or, I must admit, of his killing. If, as would

occasionally occur, I was in a sorrowful mood, Anton always had

a comforting word. And if I abrupdy had that old craving to do

away with Augustus, Anton would know just how to calm my

ardour.

I had quit my vocation for good: I wouldn't sing for anybody.

All that capital (substantial capital, too) that I'd got from Anastasia

had grown annually, by compound accumulation, into

a bank account that would allow as gracious and luxurious a

living as anybody could wish for. Nor was Anton in what you

might call financial straits: as with a Larbaud, or should I say a

Barnabooth, his capital was almost without limit, hinging as

it did, so rumour had it, on a mining supply that just wouldn't

dry up, so profound was it, containing zinc, strontium, platinum

and cobalt.

Anton and I took lots of trips. With him I was to know how

oddly wistful is cruising on a transadantic ship, how chillingly

cold it is to camp out at night, how fascinating to stand in front

of an unknown vista, how afflicting to cut short a visit that's only

just starting . . .

At long last, during a ball, and whilst I was indulging my

passion for mazurkas, Anton was to admit to a passion of his

186

own. I took him in my arms, giving way, informing him that I

too had a soft spot for him. I'd had a handful of ungainly suitors,

but Anton was a courtly kind of swain, gallant and good-looking,

making his play with charm and assiduity, buying diamonds for

my hand, diamonds for my wrist, a sparkling diamond collar for

my throat, all vying for my approval, and, at lunch, invariably

choosing such pricy tidbits as Scotch woodcock, ortolans farcis

and Iranian caviar . . .

"Was that black or gray caviar?" asks Amaury, with his almost

pathological fixation on food.

"Oh, can't you think about anything but your stomach, you

big fat glutton!" a furious Savorgnan shouts at him.

Olga, continuing, anxiously scrunching a hanky up in a ball,

looks about to burst into sobs.

"I had Anton's staff, a maid, a groom and so forth, at my

disposal. Mornings, in my boudoir, I'd find a mountain of mim-

osas or orchids which Anton would grow in tropical conditions

- this was in mid-March - and instandy forward to my Paris flat

by air."

As our liaison was growing strong, though, as Douglas was

gradually turning into a fond but fading ghost from my past, as,

far from him, far from Urbino, far from Azincourt and Augustus,

I was starting to blossom into an ordinary happy young woman,

as if, having known so much crying and sobbing, an Adantic of

sobbing, I was finally coming into port, into dry dock, Anton

was, by contrast, growing proportionally downcast. I had no

notion why this was so, but, day by day, I found his conduct

most alarming - his constant, nail-biting agitation, as if falling

victim to an unknown pain or malignancy, his constandy grim-

acing and also, curiously, his constandy touching with his hand

a talisman bound around his right foot by an invisibly slim gold

cord. Chancing to catch sight of it - it was an ugly thing, clumsy-

looking, inartistic, a bit puny, calling to mind nothing so much

as a scrap of typography, a shaving off a compositor's floor - I

1 8 7

was avid to know why Anton thought that such an unsighdy

brooch (if that's what in fact it was) might bring him luck. But

my darling abruptly lost his cool, boiling up with a fury that was

as stormy as it was without foundation, shouting foul, scathing

insults and unjust accusations and, as I thought, spoiling for a

fight. I ran away.

For four days I had no word from him - until, on a warm

autumn night, I was brought up short by a soft tapping at my

door and, in an instant, with nary a hint of an apology, I saw

him approaching and smiling but also saying things that I found

profoundly disturbing.

"It was just six autumns ago today," said Anton, "that you and

I took off on our world tour, roaming around this country and

that, visiting all sorts of famous landmarks, from St Paul's in

London to Agra's Taj Mahal. Now your mourning of Douglas

is past, it's had its day. You hardly think of your loathing for

Augustus. So what I say to you is that you must go to Azincourt

with a word of consolation for him. Having lost his son, allow

Augustus to gain an in-law!"

Controlling an instinct to cry, I said, "Augustus isn't important

— I totally wash my hands of him - but for you, Anton, my

passion grows daily. It's thanks to you, my darling, that I got

my sanity back. If you abandon your Olga now, I think I'll go

crazy again!"

"No," said Anton, coldly oblivious of my supplication. "It's

only at Azincourt that you can go on living calmly and happily,

in harmony with your soul. As for yours truly, I must go away,

far from this city and, in particular, far from you. For that Dam-

nation that struck Haig is now on my trail!"

"But why?"

"I'm just coming to that. Augustus was Haig's kin only by

adoption - on a tramp's instructions, a tramp known as Tryphiod-

orus. Douglas didn't know who his natural papa was; nor, in

fact, did Augustus. But I found out about six months ago, totally

haphazardly, that - wait for it! - it was actually Tryphiodorus!"

188

"But what's that got to do with you?" I said, dumbstruck.

"This! I also found out, within four days of that information,

by a card which a man, I don't know who, was to slip into my

tux whilst I was at a nightclub in Albi watching Lolita Van

Paraboom — you know, that star of Paul Raymond's shows in

Soho - I found out, I say, that just as dark a shadow was cast

on my own origins as on Haig's. I had always thought that I was

a son of an Irish tycoon, who, dying of a coronary on my fifth

birthday, had a tutor control my upbringing, a tutor who, a

bit of a Catholic bigot, thought nothing of simply packing his

ward off to a Franciscan school for his indoctrination. Not a

bit of it - my natural papa, I was told, was also known as

Tryphiodorus!"

"What!!!"

"That's what I said!"

"But . . . but if what you say is so . . . !!!"

"Uh huh. You got it. Douglas was my sibling!"

Half-choking, Amaury Conson can hardly say a word.

"What? Douglas was Anton's sibling? What do you know

about that! It's . . . it's a gag!"

"You don't think Anton was having you on?" Squaw asks.

But Savorgnan, showing no sign of this story surprising him,

says "Shhhh . . ." adding, "Shut up, all of you, and allow Olga

to finish. And if I don't look too aghast, it's simply that I'm

afraid, I'm much afraid, that, from now until nightfall, I'm going

to find out many things just as astonishing, many facts just as

confusing, and many plot points just as paradoxical."

So it all starts again, notwithstanding that Olga's public, as you

might call it, lying flat out on a sofa, or lolling back in an arm-

chair, would occasionally almost nod off, for this discussion,

which had got going that morning, was proving long and tiring.

In addition, it was hard to work out what its implication was,

though nobody had any doubt at all that, at worst, chock-full of

1 8 9

action, rising and falling, twisting and turning, it would follow

an old, old tradition, that of fiction not fact.

Now (says Olga), if this fact, that Anton was a sibling of

Douglas, was disturbing, if it was, to put it mildly, simply aston-

ishing, still, it didn't imply, ipso facto, that it was any kind of

nail in Anton's coffin. I had to ask what was prompting my

inamorato to abandon his Olga, and all Anton could talk about

was of living in constant panic of that Damnation that struck

down his sibling striking him down in his turn.

"Douglas was slain," was how Anton put it, "and now it's my

turn. If that law of 'an I for an I' that I found on Augustus's

billiard board at Azincourt contains any truth, if, similarly, I

should put any faith in your papa's abomination of us all - your

papa, Albin, a man with a gift not only for loathing humanity

but for acting on his misanthropy - if all of that is fact and not

fancy, my only option is to abandon you, to fly as far away from

you as I possibly can, splitting that chain of passion, that chain

of mutual fascination, uniting us."

"But, my darling, I didn't draw poor Douglas to his doom! It

was Augustus's cry, not my hand, that struck him down!"

"No!" said Anton. "As soon as Douglas got into that stucco

mould of his, his Damnation was all but automatic. You

can't say that any of us sought his doom. Douglas was simply

a victim of that law that's punishing us all. Augustus, though,

will guard you from harm; as for yours truly, an old hand

at this sort of conundrum, I plan to go just as far as I can,

to try and work out to my own satisfaction what's going on,

what's causing this shadowy malignancy to cling to our

family!"

So saying, softly kissing my hand, trying to calm a loud fit of

sobs that was shaking my bosom and again advising my instant

withdrawal to Azincourt, Anton took flight.

Anton would join a firm of solicitors in Aubusson, but nothing

was to run smoothly for him. I don't know why it was so, but I

190

found out that it took him just four months to pack it in and

start practising common law at Issoudin. So from Issoudin to

Ornans; luckily, I got to know a fact or two about his situation

in that town. Anton would scoot about in a BMW, with lots of

local girls swooning in admiration for him. In his bag was a thick

manuscript consisting, it was said, of an important monograph

on a tricky point of grammar, a monograph that Anton was

working on and was about to finish. Nobody found him anything

but gracious and civil, most particularly during a local symposium

on Lhomond in which Anton took a major part, giving a stimu-

lating talk on grammatical subjunctivity. But his, how shall I put

it, his romantic companion was a tart working in a shop that

sold various goods for sadomasochists; and, following criticism

at court for a confusing affidavit, Anton had to quit Ornans for

good.

I soon got a postcard saying that Anton was working at Ursins

and (from what I could work out) living in lodgings. I took

down an adas and saw that this Ursins was a small, charming

country town not too far from Oyonnax (Jura). Finally, I found

out that Anton was living at Yvazoulay, just a tiny dot on a map,

also not far from Ursins, and about which nothing was known.

That, alas, was all of 20 springs ago - 20 springs without knowing

in which town my darling was living, without knowing if Anton

was living at all or . . . or not. . .

"Voila," says Olga, summing up. "For my own part, bowing to

Anton's ultimatum, I caught a train for Azincourt. Augustus,

who was at first against unlocking his doors to a Mavrokhordatos,

was in fact adamant about it, did finally back down and admit

his son's consort.

"And so now you know my story, from start to

finish . . ."

"It's almost nightfall," says Squaw, sounding all in. "I'm thirsty

and I'm hungry - all of you, too, I don't doubt. And Jonah in

particular - poor Jonah hasn't had its rations now for four days.

191

If you don't want to kill it by starvation, you must nourish it

now - instandy."

"Squaw is right," says Olga. "Our first priority is food for

Jonah."

It's a mild, almost sultry night that's just about to fall. A

soft: wind blows, rocking a tall acacia and swaying its fronds.

Olga, Savorgnan, Squaw and Amaury all look down into

Jonah's pool, whisding a song, that song that usually had

Haig's carp swimming up in a flash, and crying out: "Jonah!

Jonah!"

No Jonah.

"Now that's what I call abnormal," Squaw murmurs anxiously,

"not to say a tiny bit alarming. Jonah's had 20 springs, as Olga

would say, to adapt to us, to distinguish our vocal chords and

to put its childhood companion — I'm alluding, naturally, to Haig

- out of its mind."

Soon a torchlit hunt is on for Jonah, probing its pool, dragging

it with toils and catching six goldfish, an anchovy, a turbot, a

tuna fish and about thirty minnows.

And at last Jonah turns up - or should I say, Jonah's carcass.

Poor Haig's baby carp had grown. It was about a yard long, if

not a full fathom, its whitish crop scintillating in a pallid halo of

torchlight.

Oh God, what a chilling sight! Oh what profound sorrow!

Olga knows, almost by instinct, that Albin's damnation is still

intact! What a black horizon looming up! Oh what a fatal sign!

What a malignant warning!

Wiping away a drop of salty liquid that is dripping from his

chin, Amaury talks wistfully of his liking for Jonah, that charm-

ing, cordial carp that would swim up out of its pool as if about

to hum its song in unison with you. And Savorgnan is just as

sad about it, and Olga, and Squaw. With Jonas's passing away,

it's almost as if Azincourt is going to pass away soon, for it was

a living symbol of Augustus's mansion.

192

Savorgnan puts forward an initially startling proposal: to swal-

low Jonah, thus according it, as Papuan Indians do, and as a last

salutation to an animal inspiring such loving, to a fish inspiring

such adulation, to a carp inspiring such adoration, a form of

transubstantiation.

This proposal is put to a show of hands and wins, so to say,

hands down.

"Stuff it," Squaw says abruptly.

"What th . . . !!!" says Savorgnan, aghast at such incivility.

"No, no," says Squaw, calming him, "it isn't what you think.

What I'm proposing is that you stuff Jonah," adding, "You know,

I had a pal in San Francisco, Abraham Baruch. Now, notwith-

standing that, as his family had a loathing of circumcision, his

. . . his thing, you know, was still intact, Abraham, practising his

faith almost as much by whim as by conviction, had had his Bar

Mitzvah as a boy and would always visit his rabbi on Shabuoth,

Purim, Hanukkah, Sukkoth, Yom Kippur and Rosh Hashanah

- a good pal was this Abraham, from whom I got to know a

cunning art, that of making Gafilt-Fisch."

So, whilst Olga soaks Jonah in a sink, trying to wash out that

awful sour flavour typical of carps brought up in captivity, Squaw

starts dicing a pound of Spanish onions to boil in a pot along

with a light potpourri of garlic, tarragon, paprika, cumin and

saffron, sprinkling it all with salt, mustard and just a hint of basil,

mashing into it a sprout or two, lupin, rutabaga, asparagus and

lots of juicy stock, finally blanching it, marinating it, trussing it

and sifting it out.

Taking a small carving ax, Olga puts Jonah on a chopping

board and splits it in two with a solitary blow, abrupdy giving

out a horrifying cry.

Amaury, Savorgnan and Squaw rush forward to find out what's

going on. With a haggard look, Olga points at Augustus's chop-

ping board - on it, intact, still fascinating, brought out of Jonah's

stomach, glows that original Zahir!

1 9 3

Haig, it was now obvious, had, so long ago, out of a childish

passion for his carp, got Jonah to swallow that Zahir that Augus-

tus had worn on his pinky.

Quaking, mumbling inaudibly, frantically tugging a strand of

hair with a shaking hand, a hand now almost crimson from

Jonah's blood, lurching forward without any prior warning, Olga

falls - and falls hard!

Taking Olga's limp body in his arms, Amaury cautiously lifts

it up and lays it out on a couch, shouting wildly, "Olga's back is

out of joint - call a doctor and, if you can't find a doctor, call a

pharmacist and, if you can't find a pharmacist, call - oh, I don't

know — call a Boy Scout - call anybody at all — anybody who

can apply a cataplasm or a splint, a transfusion or a suturation,

an ablation or an adduction!"

But it's all in vain.

Olga now starts raving. Loud palpitations . . . a gradual cloud-

ing of vision . . . a croaking lung giving out a sibilant whisding

rasp . . . and a final spasm coinciding with a wish, an almost

fanatical craving, to say a last dying word. An astonishing

sound bursts forth and spurts forth, finishing in a gargling

snort.

"What? What is it?" asks Amaury.

Now, crouching down on all fours, Amaury positions his audi-

tory organ against Olga's lips, as a Huron or a Mohican would

apply his to a railway track to find out if a train was rumbling

far off.

Straining at first to grunt out a word, a word that for Amaury

is nothing but an indistinct grunt, Olga abrupdy falls back, as

limp as a rag.

Vanity, all is vanity! So it is that Olga mounts that upward

path to God's Holy City, uniting for all infinity with Douglas,

with Augustus and with Jonah.

"Did you grasp anything at all of what Olga was struggling to

say to us in that last gasp?" Savorgnan asks Amaury.

"I got a word, I think, but only a word, and a word, I must

1 9 4

admit, that I couldn't work out at all: Maldiction! Maldiction!

Maldiction! At which point Olga's articulation was so faint,

so fatally pianissimo, it brought all communication to a

full stop."

195

15

Which, notwithstanding two paragraphs full of brio

and inspiration, will draw to an ominous conclusion

"Maldiction?" asks Squaw dubiously.

"Now that isn't too hard to grasp," Savorgnan instandy affirms.

"Oh, you think so?" says Amaury.

"I don't think so, I know so. For my part, I'd say that it all

has to do with a malign trauma, a tumour, a condition, anyhow,

blanking out Olga's vocal chords, thus implying a constriction

or an inflammation inhibiting or, at worst, actually prohibiting

any possibility of diction - so 'Maldiction'."

"Hmm . . ." says Amaury, who hasn't got that at all. "But why,

at so crucial an instant, opt for such an ambiguous word?"

"Why? To inform us that, during that last ghasdy gasp, a fright-

ful constraint was muzzling, was actually strangulating, Olga: a

thirst for a Taboo that could only find satisfaction in a fit of

frustration, a fit, if you wish, of incapacity, harping on as it did,

as it had to do, again and again, ad infinitum (not attaining a

point of saturation but always in a limbo of dissatisfaction, which

is to say, always conscious that any full and final form of illumina-

tion is blinking at us, winking at us, just out of our sight, just

out of our grasp) — harping on, I say, at this solitary Malignancy,

a Malignancy assailing all of us, a Malignancy proving a cross

that all of us must carry, that Malignancy of which Haig was a

victim, its first victim, but which also did for Anton Vowl, Hassan

Ibn Abbou, Augustus and now Olga, a Malignancy causing us

agony primarily by dint of our chronic inability to call it anything,

to put a word to it, our chronic inability to do anything but sail

1 9 6

around it, again and again, without any of us knowing how, or on

which spot, to alight upon it, circumnavigating its coast, magnify-

ing its jurisdiction, its attribution, constandy having to confront

its total, global authority, without for an instant hoping that, out

of that Taboo that it's imposing on us, a word might abrupdy light

up, a noun, a sound, which, saying to us, This is your Mortality,

this your Damnation', would also say, word for word, that this

Damnation has a limit and thus a possibility of Salvation.

"Alas, this insidious circuit to which I'm alluding has no Sal-

vation. I thought, as did all of you, that Anton or Augustus was

slain trying in vain to grasp what this horror was that had struck

him down. No, not at all! Anton was slain, Augustus was slain,

for not managing to grasp it, for not howling out a tiny, insig-

nificant sound that would, for good and all, bring to an abrupt

conclusion this Saga in which all of us must play our part. It is,

I say to you, by our saying nothing, by our playing dumb, that

this Law of 'an I for an I' that's pursuing us today is still so

strong, so invincibly strong. Nobody's willing to talk about it,

to put a word to it, so causing us all to fall victim to a form of

damnation of which nothing is known. What awaits us all is a

fatality from which no man or woman in this room has any sort

of immunity, a fatality which will carry us off in our turn without

our knowing why any of us is dying, for, up against this Taboo,

going round and round it without coming out and simply naming

it (which is in fact a wholly vain ambition, for, if it actually was

said, if it actually got into print, it would abolish this narration

in which all of us, as I say, play our part, abolish, notably, a

curious anomaly distinguishing it from outwardly similar nar-

rations), nobody among us will talk about this Law that controls

us, forcing us to wallow in our own prostration, forcing us, at

last, to pass away still ignorant of that Conundrum that sustains

its propagation . . ."

"I am talking for all of us, I know," nods Amaury in approval,

"if I say that your brilliant diagnosis of our plight has had an

1 9 7

impact - I fancy a lasting impact - on us. But so many circuitous

paths! For a start, how could any of us know that that vanishing

man, that dying Anton Vowl, dying by his own hand, possibly,

or still living but in hiding — who can say? — would afflict us in

so frightful a fashion? But though I now know, as you do, that

this Law holds against us that which all of us do, that which all

of us say, that not any word of ours is what you might call

fortuitous, for it instandy and invariably has its own justification,

and thus its own signification, I can't stop thinking that I'm in

a sort of roman a tiroirs, a thick, Gothic work of fiction with lots

of plot twists and a Russian doll construction, such as Mathurin's

Monk, Jan Potocki's Manuscript Found at Saragossa and just about

any story by Hoffmann or Balzac (Balzac, that is, prior to Vau-

trin, Goriot, Pons or Rastignac) — a work in which an author's

imagination, functioning without limits and without strain, an

author, mind you, making a mighty poor living by today's stan-

dards, having to cough up a thousand words an hour for virtually

instant publication, churning out paragraph upon paragraph,

writing his daily ration of incongruous scribblings till it's coming

out of his nostrils — a work, as I say, in which an author's imagina-

tion runs so wild, in which his writing is so stylistically oudand-

ish, his plotting so absurd, of an inspiration so capricious and

inconstant, so gratuitous and instinctual, you'd think his brain

was going soft!"

"That's right," says Savorgnan in his turn. "Now you might say,

'Why, that's all just a paradox!', but I, for my own part, was so

struck by its accuracy that I would actually put it forward as not

a paradox but a paradigm, a matrix, if you wish, for all works

of fiction of today. To intuit an imagination without limits, an

imagination aspiring to infinity, adding (or possibly subtracting)

to (or from) its quasi-cosmic ambition a crucial factor, an

astoundingly innovatory kind of linguistic originality running

through it from start to finish, as a word, 'Brighton', say, might

run through a stick of rock, what you imply is that such a work

198

of fiction could not allow a solitary lazy or random or fortuitous

word, no approximation, no padding and no nodding; that, con-

trarily, its author has rigorously to sift all his words — I say, «//,

from nouns down to lowly conjunctions — as if totally bound by

a rigid, cast-iron law!"

"Thus," murmurs Amaury, waxing almost lyrical, "oblivious

of this inhibition that's thinning out our capacity to talk, is born

Imagination - as a chain of many, of so uncountably many, links;

and thus too is born Inspiration, born out of a twisting path that

all of us must follow if any of us is to ink in, to stain with black,

if only for an instant, and with a solitary word, any word at all,

our own Manuscript's immaculation!"

Squaw, finding it a bit alarming that Amaury should hold forth

in such an abstract fashion, abruptly says, "Now just hold on! I

pity you, Amaury. How can you talk about books and such with

Olga's body still warm!"

"Oh, God, you must think I'm a callous lout, Squaw! I'm sorry,

so awfully sorry," says Amaury, blushing with mortification.

"It's this room that's doing it," says Savorgnan, looking around

him in mild agitation. "It's got a sort of morbid quality, don't

you think? Is anybody for moving out?"

"No," says Squaw, "you can't go. Think - Aloysius Swann is

now on his way to Azincourt and his contribution will assist us

all in working out just what's going on. And if, as I think, Aloy-

sius took his car, you can count on his turning up by nightfall.

My proposal is that you wait for his arrival whilst dining, for,

what with all our discussions, nobody's had anything all day to

put in his stomach."

What Squaw cooks is suitably light and frugal, for, although

naturally hungry, Savorgnan's low spirits won't allow him to

think of gorging on what is laid out in front of him. Amaury is

similarly downcast, simply picking at his food, nibbling it without

any of his usual gusto.

1 9 9

"I know how hard it is for you to stop thinking of poor Olga,"

says Squaw at last, "but I insist that you both try this first-class

gorgonzola, a gorgonzola of which Augustus was so fond, I

occasionally had to go out at night to buy it from our local dairy

if our supply had run o u t . . . "

But nobody lays a hand on Augustus's gorgonzola, or on

Squaw's cold roast ham or chaussons farcis a la Chantilly.

As Savorgnan complains of an aching brow, as if his brain had

a thick lining of cotton wool, Squaw starts making him an

infusion and has him swallow an aspirin. At which point, lying

down on a couch, Savorgnan tactfully asks if Amaury wouldn't

mind slipping out, informing him of his wish to catch forty winks.

Amaury, for his part, avid to find out if, at Azincourt, a copy

or a manuscript or a rough draft isn't lying around, anything

that might furnish additional information, ransacks Augustus's

library, unloading boxfuls of books and spilling out in disarray

hardbacks and softbacks, works of fact and works of fiction,

biography and autobiography.

His scrutiny proving all in vain, Amaury finally thinks of taking

a turn around Azincourt's lush grounds. It's a starry, scintillating

night, not too hot, not too cold - in fact, just right. Amaury

lights up a long, luxuriously aromatic cigar, a Havana found

whilst casually rummaging in Augustus's smoking room, and idly

strolls about, along this pathway and that, inhaling a lungful of

virginal night air that adds a faint whiff of opopanax to his cigar.

Who would think - who, truly, would think - that in such a

halcyon spot, in such a park, with all its occupants, its plants as

much as its animals and birds, living in total, natural harmony,

so many atrocious killings could occur? Who would think to find

damnation lurking in such an Arcadia?

Far off, an owl hoots. Without his knowing why, but probably

through a chain of unconscious associations, this owl, Pallas's

bird, so it's said, calls to his mind a book from long, long ago,

no doubt from his youth, a work of fiction that also had an

2 0 0

allusion to a park in which Damnation would triumph, a public

park that it would finally claim as its own.

But, goddammit, what book was it? In his mind, its infiltrator

was at last thrust out, with no kindly Good Samaritan rushing

to assist him, and his carcass thrown into a gaping pit.

Amaury sits for about a half-hour in a mossy arbour, not far

from that tall acacia with its swaying fronds producing a dull but

continuous sound, a murmur soft and low, a humming sigh that's

both sibilant and soporific.

His inability to grasp just what it is that insidiously links a

book out of his past with his situation now is driving him crazy.

Was it in fact a work of fiction? And didn't Anton Vowl claim

long ago that a work of fiction would contain a solution to his

plight? An amorphous mass of books and authors bombards his

brain. Moby Dick? Malcolm Lowry? Van Vogt's Saga ofNon-Af

Or that work by Roubaud that Gallimard brought out, with a

logo, so to say, of a 3 as shown in a mirror? Aragon's Blanc ou

l'Oubli>. Un Grand Cri Vain? La Disparition? Or Adair's transla-

tion of it?

Amaury starts, conscious of a chill night wind.

Standing up, taking a last puff on his cigar and idly throwing

away its butt, a tiny glow-worm that wanly lights up Azincourt

for a passing instant, Amaury, abrupdy struck, during just that

instant, by a frisson of unfamiliarity with his surroundings (no

swaying acacia in sight, no stony path to assist him in finding

his way back, but a soft plush lawn), fumblingly lights a match

(but its spark burns out too soon to do much good), consults

his watch (which says 11.40 but, alas, isn't ticking as it should)

and, now a bit jumpy, with palpitations causing a slight pain in

his ribs, starts cursing.

Groping blindly, Amaury walks forward, not only bumping

into a wall but also falling into a shallow pit (in which, as is

instandy obvious to him, Augustus caught all that morning damp

with which Squaw would fill his lustral baths) and, totally lost,

2 0 1

stumbling into a clump of shrubs that has a strong aroma of

blackcurrant commingling with that, as strong if hardly as

fragrant, of thuja, shrubs that scratch his arms in his frantic

strivings to stop a rash of thorns from snagging his clothing.

Just as Amaury, in a now almost paranoid condition, is starting

to think of its park as a sadistic labyrinth laid out as it is to

imprison him, Augustus's mansion at last looms mistily up. It's

pitch-black, with not a light burning in any window, on any floor

at all, so that it has an oddly forlorn, almost ghosdy look about

it, as though not housing a living soul.

"Now, now, nothing at all to worry about. Probably just a

short-circuit," murmurs Amaury, groping along a dark corridor

until finally arriving in a small drawing room and lying down on

a divan, shaking, worn out, numb with shock.

Not a sound around him.

An alarm, faint at first but soon disturbingly loud, starts ringing

in Amaury's brain. "What's going on? What's Savorgnan up to?

And Squaw? And Aloysius Swann - didn't Squaw say Swann

would turn up tonight?"

A wholly irrational panic now grips him by his throat, causing a

wild, stabbing pain in his back and making his brow go hot and

cold in turn.

A moan. "I know — I know - it's food poisoning! It was that

ham I had tonight - or Augustus's bloody gorgonzola - it was

off. I thought it was a bit gamy -1 thought it had a funny, rancid

odour — only I didn't want to say anything to Squaw!"

Whilst rushing into Augustus's bathroom to look in its first-aid

kit for a cordial or a syrup, anything to bring on instant vomiting,

a suspicion abruptly assails him: what if a drop of poison was

put in his whisky?

"Now that I think of it, it had a flavour of . . . a flavour of

. . . oh God, I just know it was burnt almonds! It's my turn!

Why, naturally, that's it! I'm going to . . . it's going to . . ."

2 0 2

If Amaury is mumbling and bumbling and crying out in this

awful fashion, it is, alas, simply for want of knowing against

whom or what to bring an accusation.

Such is his anguish, his mind is continually at risk of sinking

into a coma. But, dragging his limp body forward with a strain

that's almost inhuman, gasping, choking, sobbing, sobbing as an

infant might sob, and cursing his long, stubborn opposition to

submitting his body to mithridatisation, as his chums constantly

told him to do, Amaury finally crawls out again into a dark

corridor.

Is this it? Is this his last gasp? A fortissimo No!!! - that is his

oath. By hook or by crook, by drinking gallons of milk or by

taking an antibiotic, Amaury still trusts in his own survival. And

in a flash it occurs to him that, upstairs, in a boxroom adjoining

a studio that Augustus had put at Savorgnan's disposal, is a flask

of Homatropini hydrobromidum

H3C - CH - CH3

N - CH3 CHO-CO-CHOH-C6H5, BrH

H3C - CH - CH3

that will pull him through this crisis.

So, still groping, still in pain, grimly clinging to its rail, Amaury

climbs, rung by rung, that dark and narrow stairway that spirals

up to Azincourt's top floor . . .

2 0 3

V

AMAURY CONSON

21

In which, following a pithy summary of our plot so far,

a fourth fatality will occur, that of a man who has had

a significant part to play in this book

Around midnight, having brought Ottavio Ottaviani along for

moral support, Aloysius Swann finally draws up at Azincourt.

Having, that morning, quit his commissariat, Faubourg Saint-

Martin (which has a vault containing all official information

involving Anton Vowl and his vanishing act), and driving his

Ford Mustang as quickly as Fangio, as Stirling Moss, Jim Clark

or Brabham, Swann was hoping to park it in front of Augustus's

mansion by dusk. But it was almost as if a playful hobgoblin was

trying to bar his path with what you might call avatars ( avatars,

naturally, signifying mishaps or, in fiction, plot twists [viz. Bloch and Wartburg, Dauzat and Thomas], for no Hindu communicant

with Vishnu would think of applying to a man as pragmatic as

Swann notions as holy as incarnation, transformation and tran-

substantiation). On as many as six occasions his car was to stall,

forcing poor Ottaviani to labour long and arduously to put things

right again, that labour consisting in his scrutinising it in its

totality, point by point, from its chassis to its piston, from its

hood to its transmission.

On top of which, it would skid into a ditch, a ditch that, luckily

for both, was fairly shallow.

And, to cap that, it had collisions with, in turn, a chick (which

was crossing a road, but don't ask why), a cat, a puppy with

short, frizzy hair and a soulful look and, worst of all, a child of

2 0 7

six, a casualty that would prompt such a scandal that for an instant

Swann was afraid of a lynching party.

"Ouf!" says Ottaviani, whilst Swann pulls to a halt in a billow

of hot air. "Azincourt at last! And not an hour too soon!"

"For my own part," says his companion, looking around dubi-

ously, "I can't stop thinking it's possibly a bit too tardy. Look -

not a glint of light on any floor. It all looks so dark, as if totally

vacant."

"Now now," says Ottaviani, assuring his boss, "it's just that

nobody's up and about, that's all."

"Rubbish! What an odd hour to turn in! I told Savorgnan I

was on my way — was it too much to ask him to stay up for my

arrival?"

"Knock anyway, why don't you," says Ottaviani, trying to stay

cool.

Swann raps his fist hard on Augustus's front door and waits

. . . and waits . . . and waits. But nobody unlocks it.

"I told you so. Not a living soul," says Swann, blanching in

horror; but, almost instandy taking that back, and squinting

ambiguously at his companion, adds, "No, I was wrong. Living

in this mansion is a solitary individual, but an individual, in my

opinion, as dozy and as drunk as a Polack."

Obviously unfamiliar with Swann's allusion, Ottaviani says,

"Don't panic now"; and, applying all his physical might to a thick

partition in front of him, forcing a bolt in its clamp and, with

his stick, a stick with a razor-sharp point, shoving Augustus's

door, and in particular its flap, as far back as its doorstop will

allow, finally wins through.

"That's that! Why don't you and I just go in?" says a trium-

phant if slighdy jumpy Ottaviani, who starts cautiously inching

forward, whilst a quailing Swann, still visibly in a condition of

shock, timorously follows him. Abruptly, though, Squaw looms

up, carrying a small oil-lamp that glows with a dim and dusky

half-light.

"So wasn't I right?" says Ottaviani to his boss. "It was

2 0 8

unworthy of you to flip your lid as you did! Good old faithful

Squaw!"

"Hallo," says Squaw, not putting much warmth into it. "You

know, I had to hang about for you two all night!"

"You don't sound in high spirits, Squaw," says Swann. "What's

up?"

"Augustus cashing in his chips, that's what's up!"

"But I know all about that!"

"Uh huh, but Olga too!"

Ottaviani's jaw drops. "Olga!!"

"That's right, Olga, and not only Olga but Jonah!!"

"Jonah too!" shouts Ottaviani, "Why, that's - that's awful! I

- Hold on, who's Jonah? I don't know any Jonah."

"You do too," Swann cuts in a bit childishly. "Jonah is - that's

to say, Jonah was - Augustus's carp."

"Oh . . . is that a fact?" murmurs Ottaviani thickly, not grasp-

ing why anybody would think of naming a fish as insignificant

as a carp.

"But who? And what? And how?" says Swann, harassing

Squaw, who has hardly got a word in up to now.

"You'll find out all about it in an instant," Squaw finally gasps,

"but first," unlocking a door, "why don't you sit down in this

drawing room and I'll pour you out a hot drink, for this wintry

morning air is going to chill you through and through."

It's as dark in Azincourt as in a tomb.

"It was a short-circuit," says Squaw to Ottaviani. "I think a

plug has blown but, for all that I sought to work out which was

faulty, I'm afraid I still don't know. In addition, Azincourt has

no such thing as a torch or a gas-lamp or a flashlight or a Davy

lamp - nothing, in fact, but this poor apology for a light that

I'm holding up in front of you."

"Oh, not to worry, Squaw," says Ottaviani with his usual affa-

bility. "Aloysius and I can follow what you say just as comfortably

by night - I don't think dawn's too far off now, anyway."



* * *

2 0 9

As if blindly, Swann and Ottaviani accompany Squaw into

Augustus's smoking room. And it's in that room, with its oil-lamp

giving off both a sickly halo and a suffocating aroma, that Squaw

finally fills our two cops in on that salvo of mortal blows that

has struck down Augustus and his companions.

Amaury Conson's arrival, along with Arthur Wilbur

Savorgnan;

A mass of information involving Anton Vowl's vanishing;

Anton's diary;

Augustus's album;

Savorgnan's virginal tanka on its black "kaolin" card;

Anton's transcription, for Olga, of six oddly familiar

madrigals, all of which Augustus thinks of paraphrasing

in a disturbing fashion;

Augustus dying that ominous morning, abruptiy crying

out "A Zahir!" whilst going out to drop grain into

Jonah's pool;

Augustus's Zahir and its Saga;

Haig's apparition following Tryphiodorus's arrival;

Othon Lippmann's faith;

Augustus's morning purification in his lustral bath;

His Zahir vanishing;

Othon Lippmann dying;

Haig's vocation;

His blank inscription on Augustus's billiard board;

Haig running away from Azincourt;

Anton Vowl's apparition;

Haig's damnation;

Albin's family and its stock;

His passion for Anastasia;

Anastasia dying whilst giving birth to Olga;

Albin slain by Othon;

Anton both transcribing and translating that inscription,

that "Katoun", found on Augustus's billiard board;

2 1 0

Haig dying in Urbino, for which a handful of motivations

is put forward;

Olga's affair with Anton;

Anton vanishing on finding out that Tryphiodorus is his

papa and thus Haig his kin;

Jonah, Haig's carp, dying of starvation;

Cooking a Gafilt-Fisch;

Olga slitting Jonah in two, finding that horrifying Zahir;

Olga's fatal fall and dying murmur of "Maldiction!"

"And that," says Squaw in conclusion, "is a straightforward

chronology of a jinx which is clinging to us all and which, only

today, has struck again and again and again!"

"Hmm," says Swann, "that was an admirably succinct sum-

mary, I must say. But, now I think of it, why isn't my old buddy

Amaury with us? And Arthur?"

"Savorgnan was complaining of a stabbing pain in his brow

and lay down; as for Amaury, I saw him taking a long stroll

around Azincourt - around its grounds, I should say — and I

think his plan was to turn in on finishing it. I don't doubt you'll

find both upstairs, snoring away."

"But you'd think my knocking would bring both downstairs

again. God knows, I was making an uproar!"

"In my opinion," says Squaw, "Savorgnan is just too numb,

as is Amaury, for any sound to snap him out of his stupor - I

doubt that a witch's bacchanalia on a Sabbath night would do it."

"It's most important, though, that both Amaury and Savorg-

nan join us right now," murmurs Swann. "Do you know if, in

Azincourt, I can put my hands on a tuba or a sax, a bassoon or

a pair of cymbals, a tom-tom or a bongo drum?"

"No, but you might try this horn," says Squaw, picking up off

a tall stand a hunting horn, a paragon of a horn, a horn to kill

for, half of it in ivory, half in brass, dating from about AD 1000.

(It's said, although it's probably just a folk-myth, that a paladin

known as Alaric, a vassal of Clodion, who had such an abundant

2 1 1

crop of hair that his companions-at-arms would call him Samson,

was willing, at a council of local barons, and whilst in his cups,

was willing, as I say, to assign his own position at Clodion's

court, along with all its rights and favours, to any man who could

draw a satisfying roar out of his horn [all of this occurring,

naturally, in a dark fairy-story wood]. Taking him at his word, an

urchin, a skinny ragamuffin, a poor rustic, a common bondsman,

stood forward, took Alaric's horn in his own horny hands and,

blowing into it with as much might as a Tyrolian blowing into

a horn to call his cows in, got from it a sound of an astonishing

purity, a sound, though, so sharp that it split Alaric's tympanum

in two. This was profoundly gratifying to Alaric's lord [Clodion,

so rumour had it, was afraid of Alaric and thought of him not

as a vassal but as an out-and-out rival], who, instandy, and pooh-

poohing this word of warning from his bodyguard:

A bondsman crown'd will down you,

A bondsman down'd will crown you!

had his unwitting champion brought to him, making him his

minion, knighting him, giving him his own fair cousin's hand in

matrimony, along with a mansion, a stronghold in Gascony and

six high-ranking positions at court, and publicly proclaiming that,

just as Roland would always accompany Carolus Magnus, so

would his young knight always accompany him.

Alas and alack for Alaric and his lass! Within just four days it

would turn out that Hilarion, as Alaric's darling was known, if

indubitably skilful at blowing horns, was totally ignorant of tilt-

ing and jousting, drawing an arrow across a longbow and training

a hawk or a falcon. Caught in a skirmish with a dwarfish but

surprisingly spry Arab, who was attacking him with a scimitar,

Hilarion, a bit of a show-off, had a wild stab at knocking him

down with a solitary mortal blow, but his swordsmanship was

so clumsy that it was his own body that was run through!)



* * *

2 1 2

Squinting as doubtfully at Augustus's horn as a conscript at an

Amati or a Stradivarius, and giving out a profound sigh, Swann

blows into its brassy spiral of piping but, obtaining only a croaky,

slighdy mournful hiss, shouts out a furious "Shitr!", a notorious

oath from Jarry's Ubu Rot that's still fairly common, from

Aurillac to Saint-Flour, from Puy Mary to Mauriac, in Cantal -

in which district Swann was born and in which his family is

ubiquitous.

Bragging a bit, blowing his own horn, so to say, Ottaviani

asks for a turn, saying that, in his youth, hunting stags, wild

boar, aurochs and izards around Niolo, in its dark woods and

along its scrubby hills, had taught him to how to play it. Cockily

taking hold of Augustus's horn, twirling it around his hand as

though it was as light as a baton thrown up by a drum-major

in a dazzling rotating motion, and producing from it, with

an amazing lack of huffing and puffing, a sonorous, wholly

satisfying sound, Ottaviani actually starts improvising, and not

without aplomb, a potpourri of military music.

Squaw wildly applauds him. "Bravo! Bravo! Bravissimo!"

"All right, all right, that'll do," says Swann, who, visibly grudg-

ing Ottaviani his triumph, put out at having his own mortifying

incapacity shown up, is hoping to play down his assistant's skill,

communicating to him by a dirty look how untactful it was of

him, not to say suspicious, as an adjutant, a right-hand man, to

flaunt his gift for music whilst all his boss could obtain was a

sound as musical as a duck's fart!

"Okay, boss, okay," Ottaviani sighs, compliant but inwardly

raging.

"Anyhow, what's important is our two companions. I did all

I could - you too, Ottavio," adds Swann, now in a conciliatory

mood, "- to stir up Arthur and Amaury. But, I'm afraid, to no

avail."

In truth, nothing at all occurs for a long instant. Gradually,

though, a sound floats down as if from a distant attic, a dragging

2 1 3

sound as of a ghost laboriously pulling his chains, slowly, pain-

fully, making his way downstairs, flip-flop, clip-clop.

And now Arthur Wilburg Savorgnan turns up, limp, numb,

puffy, clumsy, haggard, sluggish, not at all on form.

"Good Lord," says Savorgnan, mumbling thickly, "Ottavio!

What th' fuck you doing in this joint?"

"Now now, Arthur," says Swann, "don't talk rot. I told you

all I was coming with Ottaviani."

Without saying a word, looking practically punch-drunk,

Savorgnan rubs his cranium, blows out two big gobs of snot by

holding his thumb against his nostrils and, spying a divan, drags

his body to it, lays it out across it and starts noisily snoring.

"Oh, grant him his catnap," says Swann. "It's Amaury I'm

most anxious about — for, without wishing to alarm you with a

ghasdy prognosis, all my information adds up to his dying

tonight!"

A cry from Squaw. "Amaury dying! But why?"

"Why! Why! Always why!" groans Swann. "Oh God, why

always this wish to find a motivation in mortality? Amaury is out

of it, that's all I know! His bio won't turn up in any Who's





Who!"

"But how can anybody know such a thing? How did you find

out?"

It was soon obvious (says Swann) that Amaury was about to fall

victim in his turn.

This is how it was. Ottaviani and I got to Noyon, all in. Our

first stop was its commissariat, to find out if it had a communi-

cation for us from Paris. I got a radiogram from a man on duty

and quickly took it in:

P A R I S . S I X T H M A Y . M I D D A Y . F O U N D O U T

A B O U T P A S S I N G A W A Y O F Y V O N C O N S O N I N

P A R O S . S T O P . C O N F I R M A T I O N P O I N T B Y

P O I N T A T Y O U R D I S P O S A L I N A R R A S . S T O P .

2 1 4

I got into my car and took off for Arras, arriving only at nightfall,

as my road was oddly full of mishaps of all kinds. I ran to, I

almost burst into, its local station, so avid was I for information,

but all I found on duty was a lisping nincompoop who wouldn't

stop talking, who didn't know what I was talking about and who

was actually angling for a tip, a commission, a payoff! For a tip,

all I was willing to accord him was a crack across his jaw with my

walking-stick, but it took us two hours to obtain our radiogram

confirming Yvon's passing away, a radiogram stuck away in a

vault that was horribly difficult to unlock.

I found out thus that Amaury's son, sailing from Harwich on

board a catamaran flying an Irish flag, plying along Istanbul's

Adriatic coast, had cast anchor off Naxos, and finally off Paros,

on which island it was his aim to stay all autumn, passing his

nights on board, going into Paros by day and roving around.

About six nights ago, in his usual fashion, Yvon thought to pop

into a dingy local bar, a honky-tonk saloon for dockhands and

sailors. Its barman, a man known only as Cock, got his kicks

from watching his patrons slip into a coma, giving a gut-rotting

glass of hooch to a sailor who was asking for a raki, a glass of

bathtub gin to a dockhand who thought it was hock, and not

plonking down a Chianti without first lacing it with a soporific

drug.

Almost as soon as Yvon sat down, a unknown man was stand-

ing in front of him, daring him to play backgammon for his

catamaran.

"If you want," said Yvon, "but not backgammon."

"All right," said his companion, "what do you want to play?"

Proposing, in turn, pontoon, blackjack, Tarot, gin rummy,

canasta, pairs, brag and old maid, Yvon finally took him up on

a round or two of zanzi, a quaint local variation on crap shooting.

An initial roll had him throwing a four against a King.

"Okay," said his antagonist, grimacing, "you won that round."

"I did?" said Yvon, dumbstruck. "But I had a four whilst you

had a King!"

2 1 5

'That's right. . . But don't you know our local saying? A King

first round is out of bounds."

"I'm sorry," said Yvon calmly but firmly, "nothing doing. That

was yours or it's all off!"

"As you wish, it's your hard luck," said this curious individual

with a harsh, rasping laugh, whilst picking up, touching,

stroking, kissing, clicking, blowing on, rattling and finally

rolling his craps - coming up on this occasion with a trio of

Kings!

"Confound it!" said Yvon out loud but thinking inwardly: This

guy's obviously a bit of a con man, but his is a trick that two can

play!

So, in his turn, stroking, kissing, rattling and so on, Yvon also

cast a trio of Kings!

"Rampot!" (which is what you cry at a draw in zanzi).

Not a man in that room but that didn't approach to watch

what was going on.

"Shunt!" said Yvon's antagonist, an ugly rictus disfiguring his

lips. "It's a rampot. How do you want to play it? On points? On

pairs? On all-for-nothing?"

"On all-for-nothing," said Yvon coldly.

An icy, spooky, malignant aura was wafting about him and

causing a chill to run up and down his back.

Nobody is drinking now! Nobody is saying a word! Not a pin

drops!

As though unconscious of having brought all activity to a

standstill, Yvon lit up a cigar with his usual sang-froid, drank

down his glass of aquavit and said, "It's your go, I think."

Inhaling profoundly, his antagonist slowly, warily, shook his

craps in his fist and, again producing a King, said with a loud

guffaw, "Okay, laughing boy, match that if you can."

Yvon, whistling nonchalandy, cast his any old how, but Lady

Luck was smiling on him and also brought him a King.

"A draw." This said by Yvon calmly and softly.

"A draw?!! No way! It's a rampot! You and I gotta rampot!"

2 1 6

"Oh, fuck off, will you," said Yvon, "that's it for now!"

But, a blind fury consuming him, Yvon's antagonist caught

him by his throat and, pulling out a Spanish poniard, stuck it up

to its hilt into his stomach, causing Yvon, who fought against it

but in vain, instandy to succumb!

"Awful as it is," says Squaw, "to think of so charming a young

man dying in that fashion, I must.. ."

Swann butts in. "Yvon? A charming young man? A thorough-

going rascal, I'd say!"

"Okay, Aloysius, just as you wish," says Squaw. "But what I

want to know is why Amaury has to fall victim along with his

son?"

"You'll soon find out," says Swann, "for it's a most important

point in this affair, a point on which, although I'm not totally

ignorant, my grasp is still, alas, much too patchy, with too many

missing links. Now, though, what if you and I and Ottavio go

and find out what Amaury's up to?"

Abandoning poor old Savorgnan to his forty (or fifty or sixty)

winks, Swann, Ottavio and Squaw start going through Azincourt

with a toothcomb. But on no cot, no bunk, no divan, no sofa and

no armchair is Amaury found, living or not. As for Augustus's

imposing baldaquin, which Squaw had put at his disposal, it

looks as trim and tidy as if nobody had got into it that night. In

fact, it's almost as if Amaury hadn't put a foot in Azincourt at

all.

But what Squaw finds, on a partition wall of a boxroom adjoin-

ing that studio that Amaury was put into four nights ago to rally

from his alcoholic stupor, is a whitish Bristol board stuck up with

four tintacks - a board displaying 25 or 26 portrait photographs,

photographs most probably cut out of a tabloid journal, a Paris-

Jour or a Daily Mirror or a Historia or a Tit-Bits.

Coming out of this boxroom, Squaw instandy calls to Swann,

who is busily rummaging through a cupboard.

2 1 7

"Just look at this, Aloysius! 25 or possibly 26 photos which

might put a hint or two our way!"

Always on duty, always, so to say, at his post, Swann joins

Squaw to study this intriguing board.

"Hmm. But, say, Squaw, how do you know Amaury put this

up?"

"Nobody but Amaury had any opportunity of doing so,"

affirms Squaw. "Four days ago I had to find accommodation at

Azincourt for Amaury and Arthur, with both of whom Olga was

avid to discuss our affairs, and I brought four pillows from this

room, four matching pillowslips, two quilts, a handful of wash-

cloths, that sort of thing. But I must say - and you know I'm

not a liar - I saw no board, no photographs, on this partition."

"I could," says Swann thoughtfully, "point to a host of indi-

viduals in this display whom I know to look at, but I'm struck

by four - no, six - with whom I'm totally unfamiliar, and this

guy in particular I want to find out about."

So saying, Swann points at a portrait of a skinny man with

long, curly, slightiy wispy hair, thick hairy brows, a dark, bushy

chin and an ugly, narrow gash scarring his lips. Sporting a woolly

cardigan with four buttons on top of an Oxford smock without

a collar, our man has a faindy folksy look about him, calling to

mind a zingaro or a gypsy, a carny or a Mongol, but also (switch-

ing to a wholly distinct mythology and iconography) a hippy

strumming his guitar in a barroom in Haight-Ashbury or at Big

Sur or in Katmandu.

Swann calls out to Ottaviani, who's nosing about at random

not far off. It's said, among cops, that Ottaviani, a bit of a robot

but unfailingly loyal and hardworking, could fix in his brain for

good any individual crossing his path.

"Ottavio," says Swann, jabbing at his snapshot with his thumb.

"This put you in mind of anybody you know?"

"No, sir!" says Ottaviani instandy and unambiguously. "Any-

way, it looks as if it was shot long ago."

"Hmm, that's a point," Swann admits. "I'm going back down

2 1 8

to ask Arthur, as I'm obviously drawing a blank with you and

Squaw."

Swann quickly rips off Amaury's photo, which was stuck on

with a tack, and, following Squaw, with Ottaviani in tow, taps

on Savorgnan's door, looks in without making a sound, confirms

that his chum is still snoring away and murmurs:

"Shhh! Our Arthur's dozing so soundly I don't want to knock

him up. Actually, I fancy a mug of cocoa and possibly a fruit or

-1 don't know - bacon on toast? Can you do that for us, Squaw,

for our work's cut out for us tonight?"

So Squaw brings in two mugs of hot cocoa which Swann and

Ottaviani soon gulp down with lots of noisy lip-smacking. Swann

dunks almost half of a crusty, oblong loaf into his mug, whilst

Ottaviani puts a thick coating of apricot jam on his croissant.

Night is gradually fading at last. A cloudy, misty day is dawn-

ing, giving Azincourt's dining room a dispiritingly wan and pallid

look. It stinks of cold tobacco.

"Good God!" says Ottaviani in disgust. 'This room is suffo-

cating!"

"What you want," says Squaw, unlocking a window, "is a

lungful of cold air."

Swann and Ottaviani start, caught in a gust of sharp if invigor-

ating morning air. Savorgnan, for his part, abrupdy waking up

and rubbing his palms with a loud "Brrrr . . .", jumps up off his

divan, puffy, groggy, his hair all tously, his clothing in disarray,

his look still as haggard as it was, and groans, "What? It isn't

morning, is it?"

Although sniffing hungrily at Swann's mug of cocoa, Savorg-

nan insists first of all on having his morning bath. So Squaw

shows him to Augustus's own sumptuous, marbly bathroom,

from which Savorgnan almost instantly struts out again, grin-

ning, having had his bath and put on a crisp pair of slacks, a

stylish polo shirt and a playboy's polka-dot scarf.

Swann instandy, and anxiously, confronts him.

2 1 9

"What do you know about Amaury?"

"Amaury Conson,' says Savorgnan blundy, drawing his hand

across his chin, "is kaput."

2 2 0



21

In which you will find an old family custom obliging

a brainy youth to finish his Gradus ad Parnassum

with six killings

"Amaury Conson is kaput," says Savorgnan again. "If you want

to find his body, it's in a stockroom, floating in a gigantic basin

of oil."

"You saw him?" asks Swann.

"No - thanks to that damn short-circuit. But what I was con-

scious of was his dying cry - a long-drawn-out cry that'll haunt

my mind till my own dying day, particularly as it was blown up

by acoustics that would amplify a dropping pin into practically

atomic proportions - right up to a final splash. At that point I

had no doubt at all as to his lot!"

"But how? Or, should I say, why did Amaury fall? You didn't

push him, did you?"

"Oh, I was willing to if I had to," admits Savorgnan, vainly

trying to mask his pain, "but, jumping at my throat, Amaury

found his foot skidding, swung back and forth for an instant and

finally lost his foothold. I saw him falling right in. It was as

though I was actually watching gravity at work!"

"But why would Amaury think of attacking you?"

Savorgnan sighs but, almost as though sulking, as though at

a loss for words, says nothing to this.

Swann now pulls out his photograph and, holding it up in

front of Savorgnan, says to him, with an intimidating scowl,

"This is why, isn't it? It was this photo that brought him to such

a pass! You got him to look at it, didn't you?"

2 2 1

No (says Savorgnan), it was totally fortuitous that Amaury

found it, in a cupboard in my room. This is how it was. Last

night Amaury took a turn around Azincourt but, in doing so,

got lost, finally making his way back indoors by about midnight.

Squaw didn't stay up for him and nor did I. It was pitch-black.

Amaury, his brow throbbing madly, lay down on a sofa, possibly

nodding off but almost instantly jumping up again, suffocating,

panicking without knowing why, and in pain, in ghastly pain,

thinking wild, crazy, paranoid thoughts about individuals trying

to kill him, lacing his drink with poison, thinking, too, that I

had a flask of Homatropini hydrobromidum in my room that

might pick him up and pull him through. So Amaury, going

upstairs without waking anybody, bursting into that boxroom

that, as you know, adjoins my room and rummaging through it,

found this photograph and, as if throwing off his pain, and giving

out an agonising cry, roaring, "That photograph!", caught my

throat in his two clammy hands.

At that point Amaury quickly took off again, mumbling and

grumbling inaudibly, to his own room; but, still running, was

back in a flash, holding a Bristol board in his hand, a board with

26 subdivisions, 26 units, all of which had a portrait photograph

- all, that is, but for a solitary blank unit.

"It wasn't blank till now," said Amaury. 'That photograph that

you hold in your hand was stuck," - pointing at it — "in this fifth

unit that's now vacant. A burglar took it from my flat, almost

thirty springs ago this April. Although I was both sad and

angry at such a stupid act of criminality, I admit I thought

it at first fairly trivial and hardly worth worrying about. But,

within just four days of my loss, my son Aignan lay dying in

Oxford!"

A sob rising uncontrollably to his throat brought his accusation

to a halt.

"Amaury," I said in my turn, as kindly as I could, "that photo-

graph that you found in my boxroom isn't yours. It's my own,

and it always was. You must trust your old pal."

2 2 2

"But . . . but what's this all about?" said Amaury, now visibly

brought up short.

"Isn't it obvious?" said I. "My photograph's a copy of yours!"

"You had this man's photograph, too?"

"That's right."

"But why?"

"Just cast your mind back to as many as four occasions on

which I'd drop hints as to how oddly similar my biography, so

to say, was to yours. Two of a kind, branching off from a common

trunk - our pasts not simply similar but matching up point by

point - that's you and I, Amaury!"

Amaury cut in. "I do call to mind your dropping such hints.

And it was always on my mind to ask you about it all, in privacy.

In fact, I was counting on you to pass on any such information

that you had on our kinship, or on that conundrum which is my

past and about which, alas, I know almost nothing. But our

discussion was so long I couldn't find an opportunity to talk to

you about it. Past midnight as it is, I don't think it's right for

you now to hold off laying all your cards out, without flinching,

without holding anything back . . ."

I took this on board, although adding:

"As you wish. But not in this room. It's too dark and it's too

cold. Why don't you and I pop down to Augustus's cosy smoking

room? A stiff drink might warm us up."

"Okay," said Amaury. "You go downstairs. I'll follow you in

just a tick."

At which point, our companion hastily ran off, his hand clasp-

ing his Bristol board of photographs.

So I was first in Augustus's smoking room. I hung around for

almost half-an-hour, drinking a glass of first-class aquavit.

Abrupdy, I was struck by a loud din coming from downstairs.

I ran as fast as I could but I still had to go fairly slowly, gropingly,

as it was as black as tar. I got downstairs, though, without

stumbling too much, and saw, in a sort of gloomy, glowing

2 2 3

chiaroscuro, Amaury stuffing a substantial manuscript into a

gigantic kiln - substantial, that is, by dint of how thick it was.

With a frisson of suspicion, I could not but cry out, "What is

that - that manuscript that's almost burnt to a crisp?"

Amaury, furious, visibly not caring to say anything that I might

find incriminating, at first took a long look at his manuscript -

a manuscript that was now turning brown, and now black, and

now shrinking and curling up - and finally sat down on a folding

chair, pointing out a tall stool in front of it and proposing that

I sit on that.

"Okay, Arthur, you want to talk. So talk."

"Now? In this stockroom?" I said, looking around doubtfully.

"I . . . I was waiting for you in Augustus's smoking room."

"No," said Amaury, with an obstinacy that I was starting to

find a bit irritating. "Start talking now."

"But why?"

"You can't say it's dark in this room - or cold - or . . . "

I stuck to my guns.

"Or what? What's wrong with you?"

"Nothing. Just sit down and talk. If not. . ."

"If not . . . what?"

"It's our only opportunity . . ."

Naturally, I found his conduct intriguing and, struck by his

obstinacy, I had no option but to humour him. So I sat down,

lit a cigar and got down to brass tacks:

"I'd always said that a day would dawn on which I'd inform

you of my Saga - and this is it. You'll also find out that it's a

story involving you as much as yours truly. That Damnation

that's pursuing you is on my trail too. Its shadow is falling on

both of us. My blood is yours, Amaury, for my papa is also

yours!"

"What!" said Amaury, aghast. "You and I - siblings!"

"Just so. Siblings in a common affliction and a common

fatality!"

2 2 4

"But how did you find this out?" said Amaury, now avid to

know, to drink his poison to its last drop. "Who told you this

thing of which I was told nothing?"

"Oh, I long had a faint intuition of it, of this baffling fact, this

fact that nobody had any guts to talk about, this fact about which,

in truth, nobody had any information at all, and it took much

of my youth and adulthood to find out what I could about it,

building supposition upon supposition, trying out idiotic

assumptions, drawing hasty conclusions, computing, calculating,

imagining, filling in bit by bit this mystifying jigsaw, this

intimidating taboo, in which, as I was conscious, a solution was

hiding.

"What a lot of work I put into building a circuit of possibly

fruitful contacts — paying a bunch of lazy, parasitical informants

on a monthly basis, bribing librarians to drag out any old and

musty parish roll just as long as it might contain information

about my family background, buttonholing all sorts of corrupt

public officials, politicians, solicitors, councillors, diplomats,

administrators, assistant administrators and assistant sub-

administrators, right down to a city hall charlady and an account-

ant's copyboy, all of whom, frankly, I paid a lot to obtain nothing

much. I had finally to sift through a mountain of information,

trying to distinguish what was important from what was insig-

nificant, what was simply too fantastic from what was just poss-

ibly so, racking my poor old brain to find, from fact to fact,

from obscurity to obscurity, a point of global articulation, an

organising factor, as you might say, that was always just slipping

out of my grasp.

"I did find things out, though, I gradually got to know what

it was all about, I got a hold of it at last. In a word, I hit

upon a solution and I now know all I want to know about my

upbringing, my past!

It is a story told by an idiot, Jull of sound and fury, signifying nothing.

* * *

2 2 5

"It's a long story, Amaury, an occasionally confusing, occasionally

trivial and occasionally almost magical story - of that "I for an

I", that's still, continuously, on my trail, on your trail. A story,

too, of that man who originally thought it up and who put it

into action all of 20 springs ago. That man who, right up to his

dying day, would spit on any bid for compassion, any call for

pity. That man who, again to his dying day, had but a solitary

goal: that of winning tit for tat, an I for an I, a tooth for a tooth,

vindicating his oath, satisfying his wrath - in Blood.

"And it was that man who would go out and kill off all our

sons in turn!"

"Him . . . Him . . . " a haggard Amaury was murmuring.

"That's right, old man. You stuck a photograph of him up on

your board but you had no information about him! That curious

individual with his bushy chin and his wispy hair! My papa! Your

papa!"

Amaury was sobbing now, clutching his stomach. "Oh, my

papa! I was totally ignorant of all this! Such a ghasdy man - and

I'm his son! You too! Why?"

"Calm down, Amaury, control your passions. You'll soon

know all about it."

Your papa, my papa (I don't know what to call him, or anyway

I don't know its pronunciation), was born in Ankara.

His was an aristocratic family, of a particularly high rank

locally, and colossally rich: it virtually had, so it was said, a Midas

touch. But a fair distribution of its capital was difficult, for, con-

sisting as it did of about 26 sons, cousins, aunts and so forth, all

of whom had in turn, ordinarily, 5 or 6 offspring, it could count

so many birthrights that it was thought, righdy, that its capital

would gradually diminish until it was totally worn away, notwith-

standing sporadic profits and windfalls.

Thus family tradition had it that almost all that capital should

go to its firstborn son, whilst his young siblings had to subsist

practically on scraps; thus that darling Firstborn would scoop it

2 2 6

all up, mansions, villas, lands, woods, stocks, bonds, diamonds

and gold ingots, and had no obligation to do any hard work,

whilst his family had to labour away from morning to

night.

Naturally, favouritism that flagrant, with a solitary son

vacuuming up all his family's adoration, risks having a backlash.

So, although our family sought to justify such discrimination as

a way of upholding and prolonging its authority (and a primary

mainstay of this authority was, as always, a substantial working

capital - capital, that is, that couldn't sustain too much dissi-

pation, in a cousin's dowry and so on), a custom was soon to

grow up taking as its basis, by a bias that almost wilfully sought

to instil guilt, not a Sint ut sunt nut non sint, but a soi-disant

moral right which, grading an individual according to his rank,

grants its firstborn all of its bounty, judging him good, virtuous,

candid and kind, whilst justifying giving nothing to any of his

siblings by painting portraits as foul as his was fair.

What was worst of all was that nobody was outwardly indig-

nant or cynical about such a family law; nobody would simply

say, Summum Jus, summa Injuria; nobody, firstborn or lastborn,

thought of such an unjust division of his patrimony as anything

but normal, anything but right; so nobody took a stand against

so obvious a misappropriation of funds, so flagrant a corruption

of authority.

In truth, as his only consolation in an unjust world, a victim

of this law had but a solitary fantasy - of his firstborn sibling

abruptly dying and his position passing to that son who had

priority.

So what you had, and almost continuously, was sons without

a sou, hard-up cousins and starving aunts uniting in imploration,

praying for a fatal blow. And, surprisingly, Allah in his com-

passion occasionally did grant such a wish: a typhoon blowing

up without warning, a spasmodic croup, would in fact kill him

off (although a basic contradiction would subsist, with a gap

narrowing bit by bit but not totally closing up).

2 2 7

At which point it was obvious that such a status quo, both

too soft and too hard, couldn't go on for long as it was.

In fact, you might say that, for its motto, our family would

gradually switch from that of Athos, Porthos, Aramis and

d'Artagnan, Un pour Tous, Tons pour Un, to an opportunistic I'm

All Right Jack (You Scratch My Back, I'll Scratch Tour Back) that

wasn't as sanguinary as you might think but that would last for

only about six months, and finally to Homo homini Lupus, which

was brought into play by such a dramatic stunt that all Ankara,

and in particular its local aristocracy, was full of admiration for it.

A youth of about 18 had in front of him six prior claimants,

a fact that, a priori, would disqualify him for good from arriving

at firstborn status. And if Maximin (our prolific assassin) actually

did attain such a status, it was by hatching, plotting, planning,

polishing and finally, triumphantly, carrying out six killings in a

row, six killings that in addition had nothing in common but a

sort of paradoxical imagination.

His first victim was Nicias, a dwarf, a runt, towards whom,

though a bit of a jackal, Maximin had no particular animosity.

Nicias wasn't too bright, though, and killing him, by comparison

with killing a jackal, was akin to taking candy from a baby.

Thus it was child's play for him to worm his way into Nicias's

villa by proposing to instruct him how to draw a bow-and-arrow

according to Buddhist philosophy. And whilst Nicias, who found

such a proposal mystifying if also gratifying, was struggling with

his books, Maximin, brandishing a pickax as hard as a rock and

as slim as a rollmop stick, struck him down with a mortal blow,

fracturing his ischium and provoking a constriction in his

inguinal ganglion, which brought on a suffocating contraction

and, almost instantly, a bout of dizzy fits that would soon turn

into a total blackout, a blackout that was to last for as long as

six days and that would at last kill him off in a local hospital,

much to his country's sorrow, with crowds of curious, gawping

Turks milling about in front of his hospital window, hoping to

2 2 8

catch sight of him spinning around, an unusual kind of funfair

attraction, you might think, but satisfying a local partiality to

physical monstrosity, particularly as Ispahan had its famous

"whirling" Fakir.

Optat's killing was just as tortuous.

Optat, a soft sort of individual, with a chronically pallid if not

downright pasty skin and such a sickly body that it invariably

had a contusion or a concussion or a dislocation, was fond only

of alcohol, drinking jars and jars of it all night long. So what

Maximin did was pay a postman to bring Optat a gigantic jug

of 100% proof alcohol and inform him that it was from Hainault,

as Optat had bought at Mons, by mail, a schnapps that aficion-

ados said was out of this world. Naturally thinking that this was

it, Optat would swallow a good third of his jug at a gulp, finding

it so tasty that within half-an-hour not a drop was still

undrunk.

But it had a fatal sting in its tail, so to say. In this jug Maximin

had put an inflammatory product, which, innocuous if soaking

in alcohol, would light up if brought into contact with air, so

producing Optat's carbonisation. Optat, who, by his total satu-

ration in alcohol, was a natural for such instant combustion,

burnt as quickly as touchwood, diffusing a curious but savoury

aroma of roast agouti all around him.

Maximin was passing by just at that instant — not, I should

say, haphazardly - and, grasping a lasso, caught Optat, a living

matchstick, a burning coal, a flaming twin of Joan of Arc, and

sought to drag him off to a public fountain not far away.

And what Maximin did at that point was compound his

iniquity by dunking his writhing rival as nonchalantly as you

might dunk a toasty hot croissant in a cup of cappuccino - an

iniquity, I might add, that was soon to profit his country (it's an

ill wind that blows nobody good), as it was found within a month

that an oddly acidic liquid, bubbling up from that fountain, had

a strong antidotal quality, particularly against catarrh, but of

2 2 9

application also to asthma, arthritis, bronchitis, gout, psoriasis,

muscular dystrophy, malaria, lockjaw, syphilis, constipation and

chilblains.

Following him was Parfait, with whom, though, Maximin saw

a major difficulty looming up. For this Parfait was as tall as

Goliath, as strong as a Turk and as malignant as a troll; was

brutal, cunning, rascally and corrupt; and, to cap it all, was simply

mad about fighting. If you hit him, Parfait hit you back, again

and again and again: it was as basic as that.

Now Parfait had, in a souk, a shop which sold all kinds of candy

— nougat, sugary almonds, lollipops, gumdrops, marshmallow,

marzipan and mints - and in particular a yoghurt in syrup that

Ankarans found so cooling on hot spring nights that it was

quickly known, by a natural association, as a "Parfait".

Thus no day would dawn in Ankara without a Timariot

or a Vizir or an Icoglan going to visit Parfait in his souk,

asking, no doubt for a gala that night, for a marasquino

"Parfait" or a blackcurrant "Parfait", two of his most scrumptious tidbits.

Thus, too, Maximin would call on Parfait in his turn, handing

him thirty sous and asking for a gigantic banana "Parfait".

"Parfait" said Parfait, a born francophiliac.

But as soon as Parfait brought his concoction to him, Maximin

took a spoonful, put on a wholly convincing show of throwing

up, and told him, without mincing his words, that it was simply

disgusting.

"What!" said Parfait, livid at such an affront, "You call my

Parfait . . . imparfait\!! ?"

Slap! Slap! Slap! Thus did Parfait attack Maximin and insist

on satisfying his honour.

"As you wish," said Maximin coolly. "I'm willing to confront

you in our family orchard tomorrow morning at dawn, but only

if what you and I fight with is of my choosing - and what I say

is not swords, not pistols, but soda siphons!"

2 3 0

For an instant Parfait was so put out by such a paradoxical

form of ammunition as to look almost punch-drunk.

And, catching him off-guard, smartly profiting from this dis-

array, Maximin took up a thick, knobby club and struck his rival

hard on his skull. Stumbling and groaning, Parfait was instantly

cut down.

What Maximin did now was coat his moribund body with his

own banana "Parfait", soaking it in syrup and adding, a blackly

humorous finishing touch, a jarful of gumdrops, sprinkling it

lavishly around his limbs.

At which point Maximin brought forth a dog that was champ-

ing at its bit, a gigantic, snarling Alsatian which for six months

had had, for its daily chow, nothing but Parfait's "Parfaits". Not

surprisingly, it sprang on Parfait's body, lapping it up and finally

gulping it down.

Walking away, Maximin said with a sly grin, "Poor Parfait has

just unwittingly thought up an original kind of candy: a Banana

Split!"

Chuckling at his own wit, Maximin had to turn to his fourth

victim, a claimant known as Quasimodo: a squat and dumpy guy,

a bit simian in his gait, a drooling, burbling moron with, in fact,

a strong hint of Victor Hugo's hunchback about him. Though

approaching thirty, his IQ was that of a infant.

His constant occupation (or, if you wish, vocation) was talking

to birds, holding forth, notably, to flocks of swallows, jays and

sparrowhawks that would swoop around a small boat-pond in

Ankara's public park foraging for crumbs - holding forth, I say,

rambling on for hours about nothing in particular, waving his

hands to and fro in a clumsy imitation of Saint Francis of Assisi.

Finding this all highly comical, an occasional individual out stroll-

ing would fling him a ducat or a florin, with which Quasimodo

would go off and buy food.

His killing was thus a cinch for Maximin, who on this occasion

was totally in control - sinking a narrow crossbar into Quasi-

2 3 1

modo's pond, wiring it up to an accumulator, so producing on

contact a strong flow of induction, and paying an urchin who

was passing by, as Quasimodo was holding forth, to hurl a phony

gold coin into it, a coin containing a tiny compass.

To cut a long story short, Quasimodo took a running jump

into his pond, falling an instant victim to hydrocution.

It was Romuald who would follow Quasimodo. But just as

Quasimodo was a snip, so Romuald was a tough nut to crack.

For, cunning, wary and inquisitorial, this Romuald saw plots and

plans constandy hatching around him and was suspicious of all

his family.

Almost afraid of his own shadow, Romuald would finally with-

draw into his villa for good, locking doors and windows, pacing

back and forth with a gun in his hand, squinting with paranoid

alarm at anybody chancing to pass by, starting up in fright if a

postman, say, should look in at his window and, cautious to a

fault, actually purchasing a hot air balloon, which would allow

him, at long last, to pass a night without worrying about

unknown assassins.

Maximin would first idly toy with a handful of solutions (caus-

ing Romuald's balloon to drift away out of sight by cutting

a cord that was anchoring it to his villa roof; obstructing its

auto-stabilisation pin or its gyroscopal joint; substituting for

argon a gas such as krypton, thus provoking a gigantic blast

inward or outward), but all in vain.

Finally, a lightbulb lit up in his brain. Hiring a small twin-prop

aircraft, Maximin took off, flying around Romuald's balloon and

abrupdy swooping down upon it, brushing against it by only a

yard or two, so producing a prodigious trough of air, suffocating

its occupant and causing his balloon to spin skywards out of

control.

Maximin's sixth and final victim was Sabin. But Sabin was a

man who wouldn't allow anybody to approach him, Sabin who,

2 3 2

having now just his aunt's husband in front of him as his family's

patriarch, was afraid that his soon having all its capital at his

disposal would risk provoking an attack on him from a rancor-

ously grudging sibling or cousin.

So this Sabin simply wouldn't admit into his stronghold, with-

out a pass (and occasionally two), a coalman, say, hauling in his

monthly supply of coal or a pastrycook's boy bringing him his

morning croissants.

A host of amusing rumours about him would buzz around

Ankara. It was said that his army of thirty spahis, all as handy

with yataghans as with swords or pistols, was paid a king's ransom

to accompany him about town and would instandy, unpityingly,

kill any man, woman or child coming within a yard of him. It

was said that Sabin had a flunky who was first to savour his food,

as any thought of poison put him in a funk. It was said, finally,

that among his staff was a young man of an amazing physical

similarity to Sabin who would withdraw to his couch at night

whilst Sabin would pass his nights in his attic — an attic, it was

also said, built by a craftsman (who was slain as soon as his job

was at its conclusion) to withstand any intrusion, thanks to a

combination lock on its thick iron door. In this attic, or so gossip

had it, was a six-month supply of food and drink.

Such a strong rival, a rival unwilling to omit anything in his

craving for total immunity from risk, was a stimulant for

Maximin, who hadn't found much to stump him in his undis-

criminatingly patchy job lot of killings up to that point. Born

victims, his antagonists, just a bunch of stillborn duds! But taking

on Sabin would finally justify his ambition, constituting its culmi-

nating point and putting his coruscating wits truly on trial.

It took him almost a month, though, to work out how to carry

it off. Not that his brain was at all short of inspiration, but his

rival's fortification struck him, at first sight, as wholly foolproof,

with not a rusty link in its chain.

Until that day on which Maximin was idly making small talk

to a local spiv who, in his own words, would "habitually supply

2 3 3

Sabin with an ass's foal, or should I say," this said with a salacious

wink, "a foal's ass, for, you know, sir, and don't say I told you,

it's only by balling a burro, and burrowing into its balls, that

poor Sabin has . . . got it up."

"Aha," said Maximin, smiling slyly, "opportunity knocks at

last. My sib has a major kink in his armour! I just know I can

turn this information to good account."

And, following it up, Maximin found out from an administra-

tor in Ankara's Municipal Zoo that, such was Sabin's voracity, a

foal wouldn't usually satisfy him. At most it brought him an

initial thrill; but, for his main dish, so to say, only a gigantic or,

if not, a totally unfamiliar animal would turn him on.

Which was why Sabin had a habit of bribing this administrator

to allow him to "borrow", for an occasional night of passion, an

animal of truly substantial width and girth, a big ruminant, say,

such as an ox or an orang-utan, a bison or a hippopotamus, or

an unusual animal, a kangaroo or a cassowary, a capon or a boa

constrictor, a platypus or a tapir, an opossum or an alligator, an

albatross or a caiman, a dolphin or an aardvark.

But such a Cook's (or cock's) tour of Ankara's animalia still

didn't satisfy Sabin, who, in sodomising so many curious animals,

was trying to match a particularly vivid carnal frisson, that which

his young loins had known, long ago, copulating with a lamantin

(Manatus inunguis or Ma.na.tus latirostris) from Chad.

Now, just at that instant, a carnival from Halifax would turn

up in Ankara, proposing to its townsfolk, among many similarly

oudandish attractions (a pair of twins with linking hips, a hybrid

hotchpotch of dwarfs, giants and albinos, a cow with a dachs-

hund's body and a rabbit with two tails), a soi-disant "Loch

Lomond Dragon" known as Rudolf. (In truth, it wasn't a dragon

at all nor an aquatic python, but a dugong, an animal as mild as

a lamb, that could, without risk of contradiction, pass for a laman-

tin, for it had, as do lamantins, a skin of shiny fur, an imposingly

stocky trunk and a cordial disposition.)

It's obvious, is it not, what was about to occur. Sabin would

2 3 4

start aching for Rudolf but, unwilling (and possibly also afraid)

to go and look at him, would try to pay his way to borrowing, for

a substantial sum, his darling dugong. Rudolf's groom, though,

would initially turn down his proposal, and it was only by doub-

ling, tripling and finally quintupling it that a cynical bargain was

struck. Sabin could hardly contain his joy.

Vigilant as always, Maximin found out about this and was

soon hatching a plan of his own, combining various sorts of

TNT, building what you might call a tiny suppositorial bomb,

managing, with typical aplomb, to worm his way into Rudolf's

aquarium and, profiting from its lazily dozing in its bath, ram-

ming in his fatal suppository and accompanying it with a fulmi-

cotton priming cap which, on contact, would spark it all off.

His plot striking him as virtually airtight, and having nothing

to do but hang around until nightfall, Maximin had a drink in a

squalid pub not far from Sabin's mansion, hoping to sing, within

four hours or so, a triumphant Hosanna.

Nor was our Maximin wrong. At 11.35 a young groom, that

with whom Sabin had struck his bargain, did in fact turn up,

drawing a bulky caravan in which, smiling as amiably as a cow

watching a train go past, Rudolf was snoozing.

At 11.52 Ankara was abruptly lit up with a blinding flash, with

a loud bang rattling its roofs and blowing out its windows,

and a smoky, stifling, malodorous fug drifting about until

morning.

And at 12.23, knowing now that his atrocity had no survivors,

a radiandy victorious Maximin would swan into a chic local night-

club, although normally tight with his cash (but such a trium-

phant coup did in his opinion warrant a blowout), and drink two

gigantic magnums of Cramant brut, jovially clinking his glass,

toasting his companions and standing drinks all night long.

So, against fantastic odds, Maximin had at last brought it off.

But alas, his Magnificat, his Hosanna, was sung too soon. Within

just six days a half-cousin of his, suspicious of his abrupt pro-

2 3 5

motion to firstborn status, would bump him off in his turn!

From that point on, killing was virtually a norm, killing turn and

turn about: if our family had a law ruling its conduct, it was

an uncompromising, proto-Darwinian law of survival. A young

accountant, who was handling its capital, soon lost his sanity

trying to control its multifarious ramifications. In just thirty-six

months, rights to that capital would fan out to as many as thirty-

two claimants, all of whom, without fail, would succumb to a

fratricidal blow.

It was finally obvious that, with mutual killings continuing in

such a ridiculous fashion, no family could last for long without

at last dying out. It was painfully obvious, too, that only a third

of our family at most was still intact. Panic stations! And, slowly,

an artificial kind of harmony was brought about, with siblings

and cousins and aunts all lining up to sign a pact — a shaky

coalition which, not surprisingly, would fall apart within a

month.

At which point, a law was laid down, imbuing this fratricidal

war with an almost ritual quality.

What this draconian law primarily did was disallow any man

from having two sons, so as to put no child at risk from his

bloodthirsty sib. It also sought to limit similar rivalry among

cousins, so that a day would dawn on which - by, as I say, a

Darwinian distribution, winnowing out all non-survivors at birth

- a solitary branch would grow from a strong family trunk.

To attain this ambitious goal, a trio of voluntary options was

put at our family's disposal:

a) that, on giving birth, a woman was automatically slain;

b) that, just as soon as his first son was born, a man automati-

cally had his balls cut off;

c) - and this option was most popular by far - that this man,

although raising his firstborn in normal conditions, would do

nothing to stop any following son from dying or would simply

2 3 6

do away with him - notably, by abandoning him on a dunghill,

drowning him in his bath or dishing him up for lunch to a British

Lord, according to Jonathan Swift's famous Proposition, as a

juicy joint of roast lamb or wild boar.

It was a law that would unblock an awkward situation and it

was to last for six springs, during which transmission of our

family's capital was not, thank God, an occasion for bloody

squabbling.

Nobody now would kill just for fun; no patriarch would allow

his branch to cast too long and dark a shadow across his rival's

branch; a quorum was brought to pass that all found fairly satis-

factory. And so this outwardly inhuman status quo wasn't actually

as harsh as all that.

2 3 7

23

In which an anxious sibling turns a hoard of cash found

in a drum to fairly satisfactory account

But (says Savorgnan, continuing) a horrifying bit of bad luck

was to occur to this unhappy family of ours.

Flying into Acapulco's Good Samaritan hospital, a malicious

stork brought our mama not just an infant but a trio of infants

in its bulging bill. Luckily (for, if not, it was curtains for both

of us), our papa who, according to that family law I told you

about, would normally watch his son's birth, had had, just that

morning, to go to Washington, for, as his work was importing

goods from abroad, a toy company in that city was proposing a

major contract involving his buying up, at a discount, a gigantic

stock of harmonicas that it was manufacturing and that his own

company could offload at a profit without any difficulty, particu-

larly in Ankara.

It was obvious to mama that, on signing his contract, papa

would instandy rush back down to Acapulco and, counting a trio

of sons, to two of which no man in his family had any right,

would do away with both of us.

In a spasm of instinctual passion, wishing to maintain our

survival at all costs, mama rang for a doctor and told him all

about our frightful situation. This doctor, a chivalrous and mag-

nanimous young man who was still in thrall to his Hippocratic

oath, couldn't turn his back on so poignant a supplication and,

laying our sibling in mama's loving arms, quickly took flight with

us to snatch us away from our doom.

2 3 8

"And so," says Amaury, "if I follow you aright, my papa found

just an only child on arriving back in Acapulco?"

"That's right. By falsifying our forms and giving us both an

alias - profiting from a lucky opportunity involving a pair of

stillborn twins occupying for an hour or so a corridor adjoining

our incubation ward - nobody had to inform him of his two

missing sons."

"But, if papa didn't know us, why harass us, why attack our

sons?"

"About thirty springs ago poor mama caught a cold that was

going around (staphylococcus viridans) and was visibly about to

succumb. A Cardinal, in hospital for a minor malady, would

grant absolution and unction but only following admission of all

worldly sins. From such a man of God, such an august pastor,

mama could hold nothing back.

"Now this pompous Cardinal, who was a bit of a crook, practis-

ing simony, trafficking in dubious shards from Christ's Cross or

nails from his crucifixion, misappropriating church funds and

blackmailing its faithful, would instandy think of mama's infor-

mation as a kind of jackpot and start angling for bids. A distant

cousin of ours, a cousin who, as it turns out, was acting for our

family's Dauphin, got to know of this situation, accusing papa

of going back on his family's law by hiding us from its quorum

and, to punish him, killing his son, your sib, my sib!

"Alas, fanatically fond of this son, hoping to appoint him Dau-

phin and accusing us of conniving at his downfall (for, without

us, in his opinion, nobody had any motivation for doing away

with him), papa took his killing so badly that his family thought

his mind was starting to crack up.

"Papa took an oath to kill us, to track us down until our dying

day, and, first, to kill our sons - so that you and I would know

in our turn how tragic it was for a man not to bask in filial

adoration!"

"So papa did know us — did know our sons?"

"No. At first papa didn't know anything of us (in addition,

2 3 9

you had no son, nor had I), but took off, notwithstanding, with

a solitary goal: to pick up our trail, to find out who had brought

us up, and in what country you and I had grown up."

His first port of call was Acapulco, from which city, tracking us

with a flair as cunning as that of a Huron or a Sioux, papa would

laboriously follow, all of 20 springs on, in our path.

From Acapulco, now, to Guadalajara, a populous town in

which I was taught my ABC and had my first communion along

with you. But that young doctor, our saviour, was soon on to

him, knowing, or probably just anticipating, his plan to follow

us. So, on our 10th birthday, you and I hastily quit Guadalajara

for Tiflis, Tiflis for Tobolsk, Tobolsk, finally, for Oslo. And it

was in Oslo that our doctor would pass away without first

informing us about that dark shadow that was cast across our

path.

Now, at that point, I was split up from you. A circuitous path

took you to a sanatorium in Uskub, from which you almost

instandy ran away; but, run down by a truck whilst darting in

and out of traffic on a busy highway, you totally forgot your

past.

For my part, I got to Hull, a British port in which I was

brought up by a drum-major, who, noting that I had a natural

gift for studying and a passion for books, paid for my tuition at

Oxford.

So it was that I lost contact with you. You didn't know any-

thing about my way of living, including my alias; nor did I know

anything about yours. But I did on occasion worry about you,

thinking with nostalgia of our common past.

And, as soon as I was 25, and had my MA, I took a post as

assistant in a Council for Propagating Low Latin, an organisation

that had its HQ in Sofia. As I had only six hours of tuition a

month, I had at my disposal a lot of days in which to find out

what I could about you, profiting from this handy fact - that,

by train, it was at most a day's outing from Sofia to Uskub.

2 4 0

In its sanatorium, though, nobody had any information about

you. So I would go around Bulgaria, asking about you and carry-

ing in my bag a charcoal drawing that I'd got a local artist, a

skilful draughtsman if hardly a Goya, to do, following indications

from a sanatorium doctor — a striking mug-shot it was too,

though probably invalid, as it was so long ago that you'd run

away.

Showing this drawing to anybody who was willing to look at

it, to a farmhand, a sandwich boy, a fairground pitchman, a

compositor, an accountant and a cop, I occasionally had a hunch

of a forthcoming tip-off. But no, it was all to no avail.

Finally giving up my post as assistant, I quit Uskub without

having had an inkling of information about you, without having

had a hint of any kind.

But, moving at that point to Augsburg, a city in which I was

paid a fabulous commission by its local Josiah Macy Jr. Founda-

tion for my collaboration on Oskar Scharf-Hainisch von

Schlussnig-Figl's study of Bororo's total lack of guttural sounds

in its pronunciation - Bororo, a particularly rich and stimulating

Paranan patois in which, as in Bantu, most nouns finish in a

labial "//" - I would go to Uskub on a trio of occasions, from 6

March to 20 April, from 28 July to 1 August, and again in

mid-August, to carry on untiringly with my inquiry.

I had, at last, to draw this conclusion: I was 10, you too,

naturally, at our splitting up. Now, if I was taking pains to find

you again, I'd had no hint of you, for your part, trying to pick

up my trail. So what could justify such a disturbing fact? I had

to admit your vanishing act or, should I say, by postulating it

a priori, to work out a motivation for it: (a) your dying as soon

as you ran away from your sanatorium; (b) a gypsy carrying you

off; (c) a brutal shock, an unknown trauma, fatally impairing

your sanity or your instinct or your wisdom, cutting you off from

all contact with a world of hard facts and truths!

Working my way through a mountain of inscriptions, imma-

triculation forms, almanacs, journals, logbooks and notarial

2 4 1

scripts, going from administration to administration, visiting

stations and dockyards, harbours and airports, hospitals and

shops, I took thirty-six months all told to find out that, 18 springs

ago, a handful of local inhabitants had caught sight of a boy, a

youthful vagabond with a moronic look about him, roaming

through Mitrovitsa, a big industrial town not far from Uskub.

This youth didn't know any Bulgarian, had blood on his moc-

casins and was visibly starving.

I was instantly conscious, by both intuition and a kind of

irrational conviction, that this was my first truly significant tip.

I took a train to Mitrovitsa and a local man soon got in touch,

corroborating my story and smiling fondly at my drawing. Long,

long ago, taking pity on him, this man had found just such a lad,

making him his goatboy, giving him a roof, a room and food.

So, having had six springs of worrying about you in vain, of

not knowing who to turn to for information, I was at last starting

to track you down!

I found out, as I said, that a truck had run into you during

your flight from Uskub, its impact causing a concussion that was

so total, so profound, that nobody had any notion what to call

you or what your background was and so on.

But I was told by this man who took you in that you soon

struck him as, basically, a bright young lad, not at all as stupid

as you had at first. You gradually got to know how to talk again,

and would display a gift: for counting. Supplying you with an

adas, an assistant at a local school had a long talk with my man

and got his grudging approval to prolong your tuition as far as

it could possibly go.

In all you would pass thirty-six months in Mitrovitsa.

Occasionally a bunch of snotty kids would attack you and spit

on you and shout out, "Anonumos! Anonumos!", a callous, cut-

ting word that was your local patois, naturally, for "anonymous".

And, I was told, it was finally so familiar a catcall around town

that it almost stuck to you for good. By quitting Mitrovitsa,

though, you at last saw an opportunity of burning your boats,

2 4 2

throwing off your past and starting out again as "Amaury Con-

son", an alias you took from that assistant who taught you all

you know.

I was hoping to contact this original Amaury Conson. But on

my arrival in Mitrovitsa I couldn't find him at all. A cousin of

his, with whom I had a long chat, thought Conson was possibly

living in Zurich. And in six months I too was in Zurich, profiting

from a symposium in which I was giving a talk. I finally got in

touch with your tutor, who had no information about your situ-

ation but did pass on a crucial fact: that a man with a bushy chin

- outwardly, just a typically shabby old crackpot living from hand

to mouth but, inwardly, boiling with fury - was also asking about

you!

This, I thought, was curious. Who, apart from yours truly,

would want to contact you? And why?

Now, at that point, fairly constantly, I had an intuition of bad

luck pursuing both of us. In fact, waking up at night with a start,

I found I had, again and again, pavor nocturnis, a vision of a

killing.

It brought to my mind a day - but which day? - in our child-

hood, a day on which, whilst I was idly playing with a yo-yo and

you with a spinning top, our doctor saviour had sat us both on

his lap and told us, softly, almost inaudibly, that in a distant land

a man was looking for us, a man who had it in for us and would

probably try to harm us and that, on that far-off day on which

our own sons would start growing up, and run a similar risk,

you and I must vigilandy stand guard against him.

But this flashback, if I may call it that, was so hazy and confus-

ing that I took about six days to work out just what it was trying

to signal from my unconscious.

And, abruptly, Acapulco was to pop into my mind - Acapulco,

that city in which I was born. I rang its municipal hospital and

found out about our birth, about how a young doctor had

thought to switch us about with a pair of stillborn twins, about

his adoption of us and our flight. And, chillingly, I also found

2 4 3

out that, oh, long, long ago, a man with a bushy chin had burst

into our hospital rambling away about his poor lost son and

shouting, "An I for an I, a truth for a truth!"

So, starting out with hardly a crumb of information, this man

had by now got to know virtually all about us, had found out

your alias and had actually got in touch with your homonym,

that first Amaury Conson. It was a long haul, but today our

arch-antagonist was swooping down upon us, was hot on our

trail!

I was struck again by his untiring obstinacy, grasping instandy

that this was a pursuit that would last right up to our dying day,

that its instigator wouldn't think for an instant of pausing, that

such a fanatic had but a solitary ambition driving him forward:

that of having us at last within his grasp, of watching our sons

writhing in agony, watching us writhing in agony!

I thought it vital that you in your turn should know of this

man in whom such wrath was stoking up such fanaticism and

who would go all out to find us. But I didn't know in what

country to start looking for you. Or in what city. In a colonial

bungalow? In Chicago, in a mansion by Frank Lloyd Wright, say,

or an airy, glass, skyscraping condominium by Philip Johnson? In

a Saint-Flour slum? In a villa with a balcony full of aspidistras in

a provincial, almost pastoral suburb of Hamburg or Upsala? Did

you know what risk you ran? And, most importantly, had you a

son? All such points I quickly had to clarify.

Naturally, I had a possibility of communicating with you by

radio or in a want ad. I did occasionally think of doing so, and

I almost got round to it, finally changing my mind, though, as

I was afraid that an unambiguous signal of that sort would also

assist our Bushy Man.

Whilst, for his part, Amaury Conson, your tutor, was trying

to obtain information as to your lot, my own papa, that charming

British drum-major, sinking fast, and having no natural kin, had

his solicitor add a codicil to his will according his only (if unnatu-

ral) son a gift of thirty diamonds, all of amazing proportion and

2 4 4

purity, and including a particular rock that was practically worthy

of a Koh-i-Noor or that Grand-Mogol for which Onassis was

willing to fork out a cool million.

Having thus no financial worry of any kind, I quit my job to

work only for you.

And, dying to know (if I may put it thus) from what was

born that damnation pursuing us, my first act was to fly out to

Ankara, in which city, I was told, our man was born.

So I alit at Ankara. But, at its airport, a customs and immi-

gration official, who visibly had a high opinion of his own

position, instantly sprang up, yapping, "I want to look at

your arm!"

Though put out by such an offhand approach, I duly took off

my parka. Adjusting his lorgnon, grasping my right arm, studying

my wrist and giving out a loud cry of satisfaction, this official at

last said that I should follow him into an adjoining room, a small

back room in which sat a civil-looking chap who, though sporting

not a uniform but an ordinary casual suit, was obviously his boss,

for my man saw fit to bow to him and practically curtsy.

"What is it?" his boss said to him in a forthright way.

"Sahib," said my man (who couldn't know that, au fait with

almost thirty subdivisions of Ponant patois, I had no particular

difficulty with Turkish), "it's an individual from that . . . that

Family, with . . . with that mark . . . you know what I'm talking

about . . . on his right wrist. As soon as I saw him, I thought

I'd find it - and I did. It was just a hunch, but, as you know,

Sahib, my flair for this sort of thing is unfailing!"

It was a fact. I had, and had always had, on my right wrist, a

livid, narrow furrow, forming a sort of parabola (just as did that

Zahir that had so forcibly struck Augustus or that curious whitish

scar that Albin would tattoo on all his gang of rascals and lascars)

- a parabola that was, you might say, ajar, not joining up in any

normal fashion but finishing with a straight inward dash. But,

until that instant, I hadn't known that it was a family trait.

"You don't say?" said his boss. "I want to look at it."

2 4 5

His assistant, his "Chaouch", as Turks say, took my arm to

show to his boss, who said to him, a bit grudgingly, I thought,

"Insh}Allah, it is in truth what you said it was, Mahmoud Abd-ul-Aziz Ibn Osman Ibn Mustapha, and for this I'm going to put

you up for promotion. But," now dismissing him with a nod,

"not a word of it to anybody, or it'll all go wrong."

"Barakalla Oufik," was all that, on his way out, Mahmoud

Abd-ul-Aziz Ibn Osman Ibn Mustapha said.

At that point his boss, not saying anything but pointing to a

chair, on which I sat down, and lighting up a hookah that had

a sharp, sultry aroma of Turkish tobacco, rang for a boy, com-

manding him to bring a jug of kawa au jasmin, a lurid Tahitian

concoction which all Turks of distinction drink in gallons.

"You know Italian?"

"Jawohl," I said.

So, talking in Italian or, should I say, "spiking da Italianisch",

this chap said that Ankara had had, that autumn, as many as

thirty victims of coronary thrombosis. And, as my vaccination

had long ago run out, I could not lawfully stay in his city.

This, I was conscious, was a totally phony claim, that wouldn't

stand an instant's scrutiny in a court of law, but I was also con-

scious that, if such intimidation didn't work on its own, my man

wouldn't stop at physical obstruction.

It was obvious that his instruction was to stop any individual

with such a furrow on his wrist, any individual of "that . . .

Family", as his assistant, Mahmoud Abd-ul-Aziz, had curdy put

it, from coming into Ankara. But what I didn't know, and had

to find out, was what was prompting so unusual a form of dis-

crimination. Why was Ankara so afraid of my arrival, of that of

anybody of my "Family"?

Not daring to ask point-blank about that taboo that was cling-

ing to my family, I took him in with a cunning trick.

Acting as panicky as though I truly thought I was running a

mortal risk by coming to Ankara, I quickly got up, took off in

my Lagonda-Bugatti and, driving to a small town not too far

2 4 6

away, took a room in a B-and-B in which I was to stay put for

about six days.

In that room I brought about an amazing physical transforma-

tion, staining my body a swarthy walnut colour, wrinkling my

brow with a stick of charcoal, disguising my blond hair with a

long black wig and putting on a brown burnous. And, casually

mingling with a group of actors arriving in Ankara for a gala to

launch its Municipal Casino, I got my visa, and an all-important

pass, without any difficulty, finally making my way into town.

From a chum in London I had a card of introduction to a

Turkish solicitor. So, continuing to sport my wig and adding a

donnish-looking lorgnon, I took off my burnous and put on

a chic Cardin suit.

In addition, afraid of an official coming up at random to study

my wrist, I stuck a conspicuous Band-Aid on it and almost

thought to put my arm in a sling as though I'd had a boil or a

bad wasp sting and was just out of hospital.

I paid a visit to this solicitor that my chum had known at

Oxford. Not daring to blurt out all my suspicions straightaway

to a man with looks as sly and crafty as his, and so practically

ad-libbing, I told him a long story about my passion for folk art

and music and my coming to Ankara to draw up a vast Variorum

of sayings, myths, sagas, amusing facts, songs and traditions.

Luckily, I'd hit upon his own particular hobby, for, grinning

as broadly if I was actually tickling him, my man was to hold

nothing back.

"Now . . . What should I start with? Do you know Ali Baba

and his Tradition?"

"Uh, no . . . I'm afraid not."

"Oh, but you should. It's simply charming:

To a tinny ocarina playing a potpourri by Paganini, Ali

Baba, tiny Pacha but as stocky as a buffalo, as a big fat tub

of lard, now starts guzzling macaroni sizzling in a frying

pan, guzzling pasta with a musty, fusty, rusty, dusty savour

2 4 7

to its flavour. Lying down on his divan, a cat starts licking

its own down. Ali Bab a burps and gulps down a joint. Good,

says Ali, now I must go. Taking his gun, his arrows, his

bazooka, his drum, mounting a darling stallion, Ali gallops

through pampas, woods, mountains and canyons and, without

knowing why, starts chasing a lion that was no doubt grazing

on fruit and thinking it could lift up a rock and find allu-

vium. Ali Baba shouts: Oh, what good is it all? Did Ali know

what it was all about, this thing, this thingamajig? For that

you would want addition, subtraction, multiplication and

division. Adding 3 to 5 is 8; adding 6 to 1 is 8 minus 1.

What? says this moron, a calculation? It kills Ali Baba; as

for our lion, it runs away so fast, so fatally fast, it croaks.

I said "Bis! Bis!" with as much animation as I could summon,

causing him to bow and blush with obvious gratification. And I

finally got down to brass tacks, hinting that in all this information

at his disposal I'd no doubt find a handful of spicy notations on

which I might draw for my work.

But, as soon as I'd said that, I saw him growing ominously

broody, his brow furrowing. I was conscious of making a faux

pas.

"In Ankara I know of a solitary spicy notation, as you would

put it. But, and I'm not kidding, it's a thing that nobody's willing

to talk about. I know of many a local guy with a big mouth who

had no opportunity to finish his -"

And I didn't doubt that his claim had a grain of truth in it,

for just at that point I saw an octagonal gash abruptly bloodying

his brow and I saw him, almost instantly, slumping forward from

its impact. It was a gunshot wound of pinpoint accuracy such as

only a first-class marksman could pull off - a marksman who,

firing from a balcony not far away, no doubt guiding his aim

with a microvisual gunsight and smashing a fanlight window,

had got him with his first shot.

"Good God!" I said inwardly, clutching at my mouth in horror.

2 4 8

I'd had a ghasdy fright and was afraid to so much as touch

him. And, in a flash, a brick was thrown in, a brick to which was

stuck by a Band-Aid a stiff card on which I found this communi-

cation:

IF YOU KNOW WHAT'S GOOD FOR YOU, PAL,

D O N T STICK YOUR SNOUT IN OUR AFFAIRS!

Illustrating, or possibly signing, this ominous warning was a

purplish stamp portraying an individual in a hood as arrogant

and apocalyptic as a Ku-Klux-Klansman, an individual holding

aloft a flag with a trio of flapping tails.

I initially thought that it was just a bit of bad luck on my part,

that my informant was possibly part of a gang running guns or

smuggling drugs and that this gang, thinking him about to spill

it all out for hard cash, had shut him up by simply putting him

out of commission, whilst handily intimidating his "confidant"

- which is to say, yours truly - into giving up his mission.

But, studying his carcass, I saw that it too, on its right wrist,

had that unpropitious sign singling out an individual as part of

our Family. I'd unwittingly sought out a rival for my advisor!

I simply didn't what to do at that point, conscious as I was,

without a shadow of a doubt, that I was running a risk just by

staying in Ankara. But what I still hadn't found out was why?

why? why?

What finally cast an illuminating ray of light on it all was,

as almost always occurs, a miraculous combination of luck and

confusion.

I was holing up in a room not far from Ankara's piano souk

(it isn't commonly known that, globally, Ankara holds first pos-

ition, in front of Osaka, in front of La Paz, in importing old

pianos), a room I was hoping would function as a good port in

a storm. And in that room I'd lurk and languish, constandy afraid

of an assassin bursting in.

On my first night in it I was struck by a loud din rising up

2 4 9

from an adjoining courtyard. Without at all panicking, I quickly

ran out on to my balcony.

In that courtyard, huddling in a kind of plaza in front of

Ankara's imposing Inns of Court, a building wholly without

proportion, a vast, amorphous, granitic block, with walls of a

particularly gaudy purplish colour, stood an incongruous group

of musicians. I call it incongruous as what I saw was a trio of

banjos, a cor anglais, a cithara, a bassoon, a bass drum and,

capping it all, a soprano singing, in a monotonously droning

fashion, as if in a clumsy imitation of plainsong, a fantastic, florid

oratorio about a Blank King and his vanishing act - a King who,

though in Abraham's bosom, would wolf down, in turn, 25 of

his own vassals.

Wildly applauding, I cast a handful of kurus from my balcony,

as I found this curious song most amusing, admiring it particu-

larly for its humour, which was both sardonic and cryptic, both

sly and difficult to grasp, admiring, too, its vividly Turkish qual-

ity, symbolising as it did a vital point of articulation for my

assimilation of that country's racial and national unconscious.

At midnight, hungry, I thought to call out to Ali, a barman

from a local snack bar, asking him to bring up to my room a tray

of mutton pilaf, couscous and fruit.

Ali brought it up and I got to chatting with him for an instant,

casually, about this and that, as you do in such a situation, and

finally about that curious musical group, Ali asking what I'd

thought of it and my giving him my opinion, a high opinion, of

its gifts, adding, "I was particularly struck by that song about a

Blank King, by its humour and its imagination."

"Its imagination, you say!" said Ali indignantly. "Huh! It hasn't

got a grain, an atom, an iota of imagination! It's all factual,

it's all God's truth! I, Ali, know all about this Family, all of

us in Ankara do, a family that has as its main physical trait a

narrow, livid furrow on its right wrist. I also know that, on

top of its pyramid, so to say, is a king with a right to all its

capital. . ."

2 5 0

Whilst Ali was rambling on in this fashion, my hand was clasp-

ing a poniard I had thought to tuck into a mackintosh that I'd

just put on, mumbling about how frightfully cold it was on my

balcony. For it was obvious that this was a provocation on his

part, a provocation that was bound to finish with my dying at

his hands.

In fact, I was wrong. Ali - rara avis - was totally impartial in

this affair, candidly spilling it all out from A to Z, though not

without lots of omissions, providing a succinct history of that

wrath, and its origin, that, hounding our family, was playing

havoc with my way of living - with yours, too, and that of all

of us!

Putting scant trust in his capacity not to blab about it again,

not to shoot off his mouth about this chat I was having with

him now, which would, I didn't doubt, bring about my own

instant liquidation, I had to do away with poor Ali, first allowing

him, though, to say all that was on his mind.

Thus, having found out what I had to find out, and knowing

what I was in for if I was to stay on, I quit Ankara, cursing it

for always.

Within four days I was in Zurich. I took a taxi to Amaury

Conson's flat, dying to fill him in on all I'd found out in Ankara,

hoping, too, to know of his own inquiry into your situation.

But Amaury was kaput - shot at point-blank, again and again,

whilst busy at his Aga making his morning cocoa.

His pyjamas had drunk up all his blood, and his iris had a

twisting, curling spiral of crimson running through it that

brought to mind nothing so much as a taw of that garish kind

that boys roll back and forth in school playgrounds during lunch

hour.

Thus I'd got to know all about that which was pursuing

us, but I still didn't know in which country I might find

you.

And, from that point on, I paid visits to city upon city, Ajaccio,

Matifou, Pontchartrain, Joigny, Stockholm, Tunis, Casablanca,

2 5 1

consulting thick parish rolls without picking up your tracks,

haunting town halls and commissariats without coming away

with a modicum of information from anybody . . .

2 5 2

21

Which, starting with a downcast husband, will finish

with a furious sibling

For six months my only goal was to find you - until, downcast,

worn out, I had to abandon it all.

And a glorious day would dawn on which, whilst cruising

aboard SS Captain Crubovin, a ship sailing from Toulon bound

for La Guaira (Caracas's port), I ran into Yolanda, its chaplain's

typist and all-round Girl Friday.

It was what you might call lust at first sight - a lust that nothing

but our instandy uniting in holy matrimony could satisfy.

Wishing to go on a world tour, I bought an ultrasonic aircraft

- and a day would dawn, too, during a flight across Africa, our

civil nuptials just 12 months old and Yolanda coyly announcing

a coming birth and in fact visibly filling out, a day on which, by

dint of an abrupt drop in its supply of gas, I had to bring my

craft down damn quickly. Not without difficulty I brought about

a bumpy but triumphant landing on a particularly grim spot in

Morocco, a sandy, Saharan hillock hardly as big as an old maid's

cotton hanky, with a crash, though, which split my right wing

in two.

Our stock of foodstuffs would hold out for a month, but it

took us an arduous and scorching four days' walk finally to find

our way to a tiny oasis at which local bands of nomads would

occasionally stock up on liquid, turn and turn about, according

to which month it was.

For our first six days I couldn't complain about our condition:

in truth, it wasn't all that bad. I had a go at hunting a dahu, an

2 5 3

amusing animal similar to a fawn but which, living on mountain

foothills, had such a clumsy, squinting kind of body that, to catch

it, what you had to do was approach it on all fours and mimic a

goura's irritating chirp - a goura is a songbird that dahus simply

cannot stand. Furious, caught short and, most importandy, with

its guard down, our incautious dahu would try an abrupt U-turn

and, wobbling, fall into a gully or a wadi, from which it wasn't

difficult to pull it out. Yolanda would roast it on a spit and I'd

tuck into it, finding it as scrumptious as I was now starting to

find salt pork, our usual sort of food, monotonous.

Finally, thirst had us by our throats. Our oasis was almost dry

and my aquavit would burn us without slaking our thirst.

This was my conclusion: that Yolanda and I had to light out

again, on foot, moving only at nightfall, filling up our flasks at

any oasis on our way, crossing Hoggar, surmounting arid tracts

of sand and glacial mountains and, by going southwards, arriving

at In Salah, Tindouf or Timbuctu, or, if striking out northwards,

arriving at Igli, A'in-Chai'r, Ai'n-Taiba with its fort, Ai'n-Aiachi

with its oasis, Mac-Mahon with its garrison or Arouan with its

Casbah.

But, at Hamada as at Tassili, at Adrar as at Iguidi, at Grand

Adas as at Borku, and at Djouf as at Touat, that inhuman Sahara

brought so many hardships to any foolhardy individual daring

to cross it on foot that I had difficulty making ground, particularly

as poor Yolanda was visibly about to go into labour.

Finally, with Yolanda's sobbing supplications ringing in my

brain, I had to abandon my darling to God and His compassion,

striking out on my own, walking, jogging, almost running, clasp-

ing in my hand a compass with which I could quantify my pos-

ition vis-a-vis Orion and Sirius, scrutinising my illimitably

distant, illimitably sandy, illimitably starry horizon, following a

caravan's worn-out tracks as far as it would go but also, occasion-

ally, doubling back on my own trail, and constandy hoping, and

in truth praying, that Lady Luck was in my camp.

And, I must say, it paid off, for within four days of my

2 5 4

starting out I saw a goum, an Arab military unit, on patrol.

Alas! How could I know that just as its commandant was

cooling my burning throat with drops from his hip flask, an act

that brought to mind Victor Hugo's famous hussar who

Parcourait a dada an soir d'un grand combat

Un champ puant la Mort sur qui tombait la Nuit

(His combat won, on foaming colt would cross

That carcass-stinking camp on which Night falls),

a hussar who brought comfort to a straggling Hidalgo by giving

him a drop of rum and whom Hugo was fond of praising not

just for his imposing bulk but also for his unfailing sang-froid -

how could I know that, just at that instant, Yolanda was fading

fast!

For, slaking my thirst, gulping down a mouthful of hot food,

changing into dry clothing and strapping on my back an appar-

atus, minimal but functional, for honing my aircraft's cycloid (or

cyclospiral) rotor fan, that which controls its admission circuit

(what such a job actually calls for is a pruning hook or a gauging

awl; but, making up for that, I had, for tools, a drill, a mattock,

a picklock, a dipstick, a hacksaw, an adz and a nail-chuck that,

to my dismay, had a tap with a missing partition, though its

knob, thank God, was still intact), I got back to my aircraft to

confront this harrowing sight: having just had six - six! - infants

in a row, Yolanda lay dying.

Roaring in pain, I ran forward, giving my darling an invigorat-

ing drink from my flask. But, alas, with a last mournful cry,

Yolanda sank away in my arms.

Oh, what words can I possibly find to portray my profound

sorrow at Yolanda's passing away? How, to this day, can I talk

calmly of my affliction? My sorry condition? Again and again I

thought that I too would succumb, sacrificing our offspring, put-

ting a pistol to my mouth and firing it, so painful was this loss.

Pitiful survivor as I was of a gloriously happy union, laid low,

2 5 5

cast down, my spirits in constant mourning, carrying my cross,

mounting, oh, fifty Golgothas, all I sought, hoping for nothing

now in this world, was to join Yolanda as quickly as I could.

And I would longingly toy with my hacksaw, for such a sharp

tool could cut through my skin with as scant difficulty as a fork

prodding a soft runny gorgonzola and so accord that instant

mortality that I was looking for!

But I thought of our six offspring, not any of whom I was

blaming for my loss (how could I?), six squalling infants still

squirming in bloody umbilical cords and probably running a risk

of strangulation or asphyxiation.

I took pity on what was now my family. Infant by infant, I

cut off that cord uniting my brood to a now arid womb that had

brought it forth; and I did what I could to wash it, making all

six snug and warm in my aircraft.

Now I had to fix its admission circuit, an arduous, frustrating

job, for, try as I might, it would always light up too soon, without

waiting for any propulsion of gas in its induction piping. Nor

would honing its pivot joint do it on its own. I had to adjust it

all, point by point, joystick and bolts, piping and pads, stuffing-

box and pistons.

It took four days working on it nonstop till I got it functional

again. And, taking off, I struck out for Agadir, hoping finally, in

civilisation, to grant my brood that constant monitoring of which

it was now so badly in want.

Whilst flying, though, what should pop into my mind but that

warning that you and I had had in our childhood from our doctor

saviour. And I thought about it, I thought about it long and

hard, during my flight, arriving at last at this conclusion: if our

family had drawn up so many codicils vis-a-vis its patrimony and

its distribution, it was that it had a tradition of giving birth to

too many offspring, a history of bi-, tri- or on occasion quadri-

parturitions.

Thus that man who was pursuing us, who was trying to kill

us, that man, our own papa, who had sworn to satisfy his thirst

2 5 6

for our blood by first doing away with our sons, was no doubt

particularly on watch for any hospital announcing a birth of an

abnormal amount of infants.

If I took my six offspring to a clinic in Agadir, I could hardly

stop it from making such a miraculous fact public. Nor could I

stop my infanticidal antagonist from grasping his opportunity at

last!

I was conscious, in fact, that what I couldn't do on any account

was insist on raising my brood as a family. My only way of

assuring that it wouldn't fall victim to this madman, this fanatic,

was, cuckoo-fashion, to put my sons, all my sons, up for

adoption . . .

"I'm with you now," murmurs Amaury, blanching, "I know

how it's all coming out. Taking 'Tryphiodorus' as an alias, you

put on a grubby smock, of a sort that a tramp might sport, and

you had Augustus adopt Haig, Vowl adopt Anton . . ."

"That's right. But you still don't know it all. For think of this:

Hassan Ibn Abbou was also my son, whom I had to abandon

as soon as I got to Agadir.

Parking my aircraft in a vacant hangar, and wishing to guard

my offspring from any risk of association with our family, what

I did first was to scratch off, with a crypto-coagulating nib, that

tiny but singular wrist mark that, for any child, was damning

proof of his background.

And, picking a baby out at random, according to an old song

I'd known in my own childhood:

1 Potato, 2 Potato

3 Potato, 4

5 Potato, 6 Potato, and so on,

I took it to a hospital in Agadir. It was night. Groping along

corridors by just as much light as a match would afford, I finally

caught sight of a woman who had just had a stillborn child and

who, visibly, was also not long for this world. It was an opportu-

nity I couldn't miss. I insist that this poor woman was dying -

2 5 7

by finding a wad of cottonwool on a tray and soaking it in

chloroform, I simply brought it all forward by a day or so. Placing

this woman's baby in an adjoining cot, I had my own stand in

for it.

At that point, scrawling what I thought was a suitably Arabic-

sounding alias, Ibn Abbou (an alias which from that day forward

would cling to my son), on a plastic tag and attaching it to his

wrist, I took flight from Morocco, my goal that of finding vacant

lots, if I may put it that way, for all of my offspring. You know

now that Douglas was put into Augustus's hands at Arras; and

that in Dublin, as Tryphiodorus, I thought to farm Anton out

to Lady d'Antrim, who had as husband Lord Horatio Vowl, an

Irish tobacco baron.

This Lord Vowl was famous for making for Dunhill, incorpor-

ating Latakia and Virginia tobacco in a combination known only

to him, for it got its miraculously insinuating flavour not from

its individual parts but from his cunning proportioning of such

parts - was famous, I say, for making Balkan Sobrani, a brand

familiar to all tobacco aficionados and which Davidoff would call

a classic.

Alas! Within just thirty-six months, Lord Horatio, mounting

a foal that was probably a bit too frisky for a man of his bulk,

had a bad fall, so bad a fall, in fact, that it would instandy knock

him out and put him in a fatal coma. With his last, dying gasp,

Vowl was said to murmur to his assistant a formula, a formula

as famous and also as unknown as Coca-Gala's, for manufacturing

his tobacco, but its list of instructions would turn out so hard to

follow that nobody, posthumously, so to say, has found a way

of producing a tobacco with all its original purity and subtility

of aroma. Which is why, nowadays, you'll find no such thing as

good Balkan Sobrani; and which is also why a low-quality brand

is now sold by tobacconists as a poor imitation, Squadron Four,

which, combining a fairly uninspiring if not totally banal kind of

Latakia with an insipid Virginia, a Virginia that's obviously not

2 5 8

a product of sunny Arlington, Fairfax, Richmond, Portsmouth,

Chatham, Norfolk or any truly Virginian plantation, has a flavour

that, candidly, you could only call so-so.

But if, thus, you know how I put half of my offspring out to

adoption, you know nothing, if I'm not wrong, of my surviving

trio.

First, I should say that it was my aim to bring up two out of

six on my own. So, having a last infant to part with - it wasn't

a boy but a girl, my only girl - I took a train for Davos . . .

"Davos?" said Amaury with curiosity.

"That's right. And you'll find out in your turn how I found

out why any notion of salvation on my part was simply wishful

thinking, why our family's Damnation was going to track us

down till our dying day. For — oh, it was just damn bad luck! —

in Davos, to part with that last child, I took it in my mind to go

to a sanatorium."

"A sanatorium!" said Amaury, almost in a cry.

"Uh huh. A sanatorium," I said, in a singsong as mournful as

an air-raid alarm, as a ship's foghorn in a storm, "right again, a

sanatorium. I got into it, as was my wont, by night, walking at

random along ill-lit corridors and at last, through a small, oblong

window, spotting a dark cot in which was lying -"

Amaury dramatically cut in. "Anastasia!"

"Yup, Anastasia, Hollywood's most luminous, most numinous

star. I saw, at my approach, that Anastasia, who now lay dying

of TB, having but a solitary functioning lung and that lung now

functioning so badly, so porous and spongy, so full of inflam-

mation, palpitation, granulation and catarrh, you could almost

wring it out, had brought into this world a baby as ugly as a

bug, a baby that was also visibly on its way out of it, so allowing

yours truly to act without that compunction, contrition and

attrition that usually accompany a killing - for it would go with

its mama into God's kingdom whilst I had a vacant cot for my

last child!"

2 5 9

"What?" said Amaury. "So Douglas, Olga's husband . . ."

"And paramour!"

". . . was also Olga's sibling!"

"That's right."

"Oh calamity!" said Amaury, almost indistincdy; and, follow-

ing an instant without saying a word, "But what of your two

sons - you know, whom you brought up on your own?"

For sixty months or so it wasn't all that bad. But (I was now

living in Ajaccio, that's in Corsica, you know) a day was to dawn

on which I took my two infants out to play in a small public

suburban park not too far from a wood. Thirsty, and imagining

I wasn't running any risk, I found my way to a bar to drink a

cold soda pop, a 7-Up, I think. Just as I was savouring it, and

chatting away to a bosomy young barmaid, a horrifying cry was

to jolt us both.

I quickly put down my glass and ran out, to find that that park

that I'd thought so ordinary, so innocuous, was now in total

confusion, full of sobbing matrons, swooning maids and livid

municipal guards. What was going on? Alas, I soon found out,

picking it up through an orgy of sniffling, blubbing, moaning,

groaning and hanky-wringing.

What I was told was that a tall, skinny man sporting an

amorphous sort of cap, playing a jaunty air on what I think you

call a kazoo, and coming out of that adjoining wood, had with

his music drawn a crowd of infants around him, including my

pair, and gradually, insidiously, drawn it away with him back

into it. Following a hiatus during which nobody had any notion

what to do, a hunt was got up, chasing him and sniffing him

out, scouring scrubland and shrubland, patrolling, raking soil and

looking for footprints. All, though, in vain. In addition, it was

said that this was a wood that had its own gang of bandits,

cutthroats notorious for holding infants to ransom or robbing

adults, so that, not surprisingly, nobody was willing to go all

that far into it.

Concurring with this opinion, my initial assumption was that

2 6 0

it was a strictly random affair, that this atrocity, striking down

all that's most virginal and incorrupt in our civilisation, had noth-

ing to do with that horror that was pursuing us.

But, within four days, I found out from my Figaro that your

firstborn son, Aignan, who was 20 and participating in a Martial

Cantaral Foundation symposium on pathovocalisation, a sym-

posium that (a fact by which I was also struck) had as its chairman

my own boss, Gadsby V. Wright, was, how shall I say, kaput.

And I thought it all too obvious that, at Ajaccio as at Oxford,

our Bushy Man was now moving into action . . .

Amaury abruptly cut in. "So you found out about Aignan and

his . . . his dying in that awful fashion?"

"I did."

"But why didn't you go to Oxford for his burial? For it was

your opportunity of making contact with your sibling, of our

talking, of my finding out at last that this lunatic was pursuing

us and possibly of our taking communal action against him."

"In fact, my original plan was instandy to fly to Britain. And,

with that in mind, I rang up Lord Wright who, or so I was told

by him, had caught sight of an unknown man accompanying

Aignan to his symposium, a day prior to his vanishing act - a

man, I should point out, with a bushy chin. I was conscious that,

if I was to turn up at his burial, that man would know what I

was doing in Oxford and so, obviously, who I was. As my incog-

nito was, I thought, vital, I didn't go, hoping soon to contact

you in privacy - probably by post."

For an instant I was struck by how unusually stiff Amaury was

growing. Finally, in an faindy ominous pitch, this is what was

said by him:

"You thought, you thought! You, you, always you! By not

going to Oxford, by not risking your own skin, you simply forgot

to pass on information about that shadow that was falling upon

us. For you it was unimportant, it was trifling, it was trivial, it

just wasn't worth talking about, that cross I had to carry! That

2 6 1

son I had to carry - carry to his tomb! You had an opportunity

to inform your own kith and kin — but, oh no, not you! Knowing

all about it as you did, it didn't occur to you to say a word! Your

sin by omission is, in my opinion, as shocking a sin, as mortal a

sin, as our papa's sin by commission. But that blood that's flowing

by your sin, by your omission, is now, and by my own hand,

about to abandon your body, just as would a pack of rats from

a sinking ship!"

It was obvious that poor Amaury was raving, half out of his

mind, for I saw him pick up a thick black andiron and start

walking forward with a low animal growl.

In my turn I took a pick, hoping to ward off his attack with

it. But that attack didn't actually occur. For, during his approach,

it was as though Amaury was abrupdy drawn back by an almost

inhuman compulsion - an aura of physical might that was pulling

him down, down, down, into that gigantic basin of oil.

Giving out a bloodcurdling cry, slipping and falling, as though

no laws of gravity could apply to him now, Amaury spun around

and in a flash was out of sight. . .

2 6 2

V I

A R T H U R W I L B U R G

SAVORGNAN

25

Which contains, in its last paragraph, a highly

significant blank

"And so," says Savorgnan, finally rounding off his account, "it

was all up with Amaury Conson."

"By Baour Lormian, translator of Ossian," says Swann, using

with obvious satisfaction a florid oath from his childhood, "that's

a fascinating story all right. But I could point out a handful of

contradictions in it."

"I know, I know," says Savorgnan. "For, if my chronology is

right, Amaury's own fatality should not occur prior to that of

Yvon, his lastborn son. But whilst, worn out, I was snoozing

upstairs, am I right in thinking you told Squaw of Yvon's liqui-

dation?"

"That I did," Swann admits. "You know your onions, Arthur,

I must say. That wasn't what I was thinking of, though. What I

found contradictory was that, if your lunatic dad did away with

all six of your offspring - with Anton Vowl, Douglas Haig

Clifford, Olga Clifford Mavrokhordatos, Hassan Ibn Abbou

and that pair of sons that you brought up on your own and that

your papa would spirit away from you in a distant past - why not

you? By rights, your surviving such a holocaust is illogical."

"It's a fact that's also running through my own mind," says

Savorgnan, visibly quaking. "I know, too, that it'll soon swoop

down, thus putting a final point to all this horror that's blighting

my family."

But Swann again contradicts him.

2 6 5

"No, it's a final point only if you all know your lot, your fatum,

as in all good fiction."

With a look of contrition, Ottavio Ottaviani tugs at his chin.

'That's right, Ottavio," says Aloysius Swann. "It's your turn

now to hold forth."

"But, boss," Ottaviani stubbornly insists, "my opinion isn't

worth a sparrow's fart - so it's always said."

"Now now, don't go putting on airs," says his boss jovially.

"I can't wait - and I know I'm talking for all of us - to find out

what you plan to say to us."

Ottaviani sighs and starts talking.

"It was on my third birthday that, in Corsica, in a public park

in Ajaccio, a tall, skinny chap cast a charm upon us, fascinating

us, luring us away into a wood, kidnapping us -"

"Oh God, it's my son!" howls Savorgnan.

"Daddy!" sobs Ottaviani, taking him in his arms and hugging

him.

"But, son," says Savorgnan, cuddling him in a spasm of patriar-

chal passion, "which of you is it - Ulrich or Yorick?"

"I'm Ulrich. That's to say, I was Ulrich at first. But I was

caught, along with my sibling, by a bandit, who taught us how

to snatch cocks and ducks from all kinds of country bumpkins,

and I was finally sold, for an insultingly low sum, I must say, to

a local infantryman from whom I think I got my vocation as cop.

Yorick was sold, too, to a carnival showman known as Gribaldi."

"So my son Ulrich is still living," says Savorgnan with a loud

sigh. "So you didn't fall victim to that Law, that 'I for an I'. But

what of Yorick?"

"Yorick took off with his carnival for Bonifacio, whilst Ottavi-

ani, by whom I was brought up, bought a small bungalow for

us in Bastia. I didn't know in which city Yorick was living. And

though, in my 20s, I occasionally had to go to Bonifacio for a

job, I couldn't find any hint of Yorick or his carnival.

"All I found out about him was his studying music - drums,

so I was told - and boarding a brig bound for Livorno, for that

2 6 6

showman guy, an Albanian by birth, thus a Tuscan, had a wish,

prior to cashing in his chips, for a last, nostalgic look at that

district still so familiar to him from his youth . . ."

Swann laughs - abrupriy, harshly.

"You want to know if Yorick is still living? You want him

living, don't you, for that would imply your own survival. No

such luck, I'm afraid! Yorick got his about 25 springs ago . . ."

"Alas, poor Yorick!" says Savorgnan, his vision misting up.

"Voila," says Swann, brandishing a small black book. "Know

what this is? It's my adjutant Pons's account of Yorick Gribaldi's

dying:

Wasqu'lham: Today, Monday 28 July, a trio of conscripts is

found missing from our battalion's barracks at morning roll

call. Adjutant Boutz is furious:

"Six days!" Boutz shouts at his corporal. "I'm giving you

just six days to put your hands, and your handcuffs, on that

band of fucking good-for-nothings!"

But four days pass and our arrogant trio is still AWOL.

"Ifs Biribi for all of'm!"growls Boutz.

Boutz informs Major Glupf his commandant, who says in

his forthright way that his garrison must do all it can to catch

and bring back, a.s.a.p., living or not, hussars Pitchu, Folkoch

and Worms, to stand trial in a court martial, on an accusa-

tion of disloyalty to Wasqu'lham's population.

Glupf consigns his garrison to barracks, mobilising six bat-

talions, guns at hand, and promising thirty ducats to any

man with vital information to supply. But this award brings

in only a bit of salacious gossip that, frankly, has nothing to do

with anything. Rummaging through a train and dragging a

canal also fails to turn up trumps.

Now Boutz has to inform his major of an infantryman

going AWOL in his turn: Ibrahim, a Roman by origin, 25,

a corporal, a Military Cross and in addition Glupf s cousin!

And, in 24 hours, a Tuscan drum-major, Gribaldi, follows

suit, making 5 AWOLS in all, in just six days!

26 7

Boutz, running out of things to do, frowns. It's lucky that

his nation is not at war and that its King's dying, with lots

of public oratorios, has brought a modicum of calm and har-

mony to its population.

A furious Major Glupf insists on having a total blackout;

and, his confining his garrison to barracks proving hard on

local shops and bars, has to justify it publicly by giving out a

rumour (phony, naturallyj about an assassination of Lord

Horatio. Mobilisation, it's said, is about to follow any day.

Glupf also craftily finds out, during his inquiry, that our

skiving bastards had a point in common: about a day prior

to going AWOL, all had drunk a glass of schnapps in a

local bar, Conscript's Arms, adjoining a municipal abattoir

- a bar which has a barmaid, Rosa, with a notorious passion

for dragoons.

So, substituting civilian clothing for his uniform with its

dazzling gold braid, Oskar Glupf thinks it worth having a

look at this squaddfs hang-out. With a guard standing

watch not too far o f f , Glupf sits down and has a bock, paying

for it with a gold florin.

Noticing that Rosa is washing out cups and tankards in a

sink, Glupf starts chatting about this and that, but, by Saint

Stanislas, and notwithstanding all his cunning, gains noth-

ing for his pains.

His suspicion, though, is still stuck on this barmaid, who

(so common gossip has it), acting for a rival country trying

hard to suck his own into an all-out war, is guilty of inciting

his troops, doughboy and NCO, infantryman and dragoon,

hussar and spahi, to turn traitor. But, with six battalions on

constant patrol, with road blocks cutting off local highways,

how could anybody possibly find a way out? So it's Glupf s

opinion that his band of missing hussars is still lying doggo

in Rosa's bar.

But how to find out? That day, without any obviously

logical motivation, Glupf has Rosa's sink and its canalisation

2 6 8

dug up. Nothing. And pays a visit to Rosa's upstairs room,

tapping its walls, poking around on its roof. Nothing

again.

At last Rosa is brought in front of a military tribunal.

Without wasting an instant, and without mincing words,

an army solicitor shouts, "What did you do with our missing

hussars ? What did you do with Ibrahim, with Gribaldi and

with Worms, all of whom hang out at your bar? And what,

pray, did you do on Monday night, 28 July?"

But Rosa is a match for him.

"Worms? Gribaldi? Ibrahim? By all my holy saints, by my

darling Virgin Mary, I don't know any Worms, Gribaldi or

Ibrahim! Lots of troops hang out at my bar!"

"Harlot!" shouts out Glupf. "It's all around town!"

"I am? You liar! I got a boy of my own, a good boy, a

dragoon, who'll kill anybody that puts a hand on my body."

"Who is it! Who!"

"I obj-" a solicitor starts to say, until Glupf shouts him

down.

Finally an accusation of criminal disloyalty and incitation

to kill is brought against Rosa.

But in his own summing-up Rosa's solicitor shows that this

accusation has as its foundation not proof but only word-of

mouth, no convincing fact but only circumstantial supposition,

no probing point but only Major Glupf s wish, at any cost,

to vilify his antagonist.

So, to a standing ovation, with a host of "hurrahs" and

"bravos" and "attababys" from an approving public, Rosa is

found not guilty. Poor Glupf admits to losing - promising,

though, that only a fight and not a war is lost, that a day

will dawn, a day on which Rosa will find out who is truly in

command, a day on which Auschwitz will turn up its gas

- and strolls out whistling a military march.

Within six days of that trial, a commando attacks Rosa's

bar with a bazooka. Body upon body, carcass upon carcass,

2 6 9

is found, including Rosa's, but not including Gribaldi's or

Ibrahim's or that of any missing conscript. . .

"Now I'd call that totally unambiguous," says Swann, concluding

his curious account.

"Why, not at all," says Savorgnan, instantly contradicting him.

"I'm willing to go along with you on Yorick's going AWOL, but

not on his dying."

"Arthur's right - not on his dying," says Ottaviani, parrot-

fashion, hoping to sound brainy by imitating his dad.

"As Rosa's bar, not surprisingly, was blown to bits, with not

a wall standing," says Swann, "Glupf and his troops had to start

bulldozing away a mass of bricks and mortar and tiling and stuff,

and a watch was found, a charming rococo watch with, on its

dial, a ribbon of gold garlands of Arab origin - a watch, I might

add, which Yorick Gribaldi had bought just that month."

"But who's to know it wasn't a gift from Yorick to Rosa?"

"That's right - a gift from Yorick to Rosa," parrots Ottaviani.

"Hmm, all right," admits Swann, "on its own it isn't implicit

proof of Yorick's dying. But I'll furnish you now with a truly

convincing proof. This, ab absurdo, is my postulation:

"Assuming that Yorick is in fact kaput, all anybody has to do

is kill Ottavio Ottaviani, alias Ulrich Savorgnan, so that instantly,

according to that old family law, Arthur Wilburg Savorgnan,

having no son still living, will fall victim to it in his turn!"

"Cunning!" clucks Squaw.

"Inhuman!" shouts Savorgnan.

"Nazi!" spits out Ottaviani.

"And, in fact," says Swann almost nonchalandy, "I think I'll

find out if my solution works. First of all, I'll kill Ottavio, who's

starting to put my back up anyway."

"But why?" says Ottaviani imploringly. "I'm too young!"

"Now now, Ottavio, I want no grumbling from you," says his

boss. "Wasn't it obvious to you that a climax was approaching

fast?"

2 7 0

Ottaviani starts sobbing.

"But it's got nothing to do with -"

"Button your lip, you moron!" roars Swann, pounding him

on his skull. "Why don't you look at this communication that

was put into my hands not long ago?"

Swann unlocks his holdall, draws out a manuscript and hands

it to Ottaviani.

"Why Ottaviani?" asks Squaw, who was obviously not au fait

with Swann's tactics.

"You'll find out," murmurs Swann, smiling sardonically.

"Aloud, Ottavio, s'il vous plait."

Adjusting his lorgnon, coughing, swallowing, gargling,

Ottaviani gulps and, with a slightly pompous intonation, starts:

"I'm going to rock this child in his cot ," sighs Orgon, son of

Ubu. "I'm going to wolf down mutton, broccoli, dumplings,

rich plum pudding. I'm going to drink, not grog, but punch."

Orgon drinks hock, too, rum, Scotch, plus two hot brimming

mugs ofBovril to finish up with, which soon prompts him to

nod off. Running brooks drown out his snoring. I stroll to

rocks on which I too will nod o f f , with Orgon's dozing son,

with Orgon, son of Ubu.

Condors swoop down on us. Poor scrofulous lions slink out,

scrutinising dingos with scornful looks. Chipmunks run wild.

Opossums run, too, without stopping. North or south? I

wouldn't know. Plunging off clifftops, bison split limbs in two.

It hurts. Ivy grows on brick, rising up from stucco pots to

shroud windows or roofs.

Prom Ubu's bottom drops his own bulk in gold.

"Hmm," says Savorgnan, having difficulty in disguising his con-

fusion.

"What!" says Swann, as if furious at Savorgnan's stupidity,

"isn't it obvious what's so fascinating about it?"

"Frankly, no."

"Look at it, Savorgnan - it hasn't got a solitary 'a'!"

2 7 1

"Good God!" says Savorgnan, snatching it out of Ottaviani's

hands and staring at it. "It hasn't at that!"

"Mindblowing!" says Squaw.

"Fascinating," Savorgnan concurs, "just fascinating."

"And in addition," adds Swann, "I can find just a solitary y

in it — in 'ivy'!"

"Astonishing! Amazing! Astounding!"

Ottaviani finally asks for his manuscript back. Savorgnan hands

it to him and, as though only now grasping its import, Ottaviani

quickly scans it, moving his lips but not saying a word.

"So, Ottavio," says Swann sarcastically, "do you catch on

now?"

Ottaviani looks ill, squirming in his chair, shaking uncon-

trollably, finding it impossibly difficult to say what's on his mind.

"I . . . I . . ."

"What?"

Crumpling up, Ottavio Ottaviani murmurs in a dying fall:

"Nor has it got a solitary

2 7 2

26

Which, as you must know by now, is this book's last

"Pardon?" say his two companions, who hadn't caught that

Omission of which only Ottaviani was conscious.

But Ottaviani says nothing, making only a short, sharp sound

- a kind of pop or plop, a tiny bit grating, a tiny bit irritating,

but so soft you almost instantly forgot it.

Squaw abruptly cuts in with a mournful cry.

"What is it?" asks Swann, blanching.

"Ottaviani! Ottaviani!" howls Squaw.

Crimson, florid, Ottaviani starts inflating. As imposing and

plump as Buck Mulligan standing on top of a spiral stairway

whilst intoning an "Introibo", his slowly magnifying body brings

to mind a purplish balloon, of a sort that you might buy for your

child in Paris Montsouris.

And, in a twinkling, just as such a balloon will combust if

brought into contact with a sharp point, Ottaviani burst, his

body ripping apart, making a din as loud as an aircraft attaining

Mach III and outstripping sound with a mirror-smashing bang.

And, in an instant, not a nail, not a button - poor Ottaviani

is nothing but a puny, chalky mass as small as a tiny turd of ash

from a cigar but so oddly whitish in colour you might think it

was talc.

Savorgnan stands dumbstruck, stiff and still. His two last sons

dying in turn, two sons long thought in Abraham's bosom,

abruptly brought back to him and now just as abruptly dying

again — it was obviously too much for him. Sobbing, vainly trying

to control his sorrow, this poor papa says to Swann:

2 7 3

"I'm right in thinking, am I not, that you did all his dirty work

- you did just what that Bushy Man told you to do?"

"I wouldn't put it that way - but I was his faithful right hand,

you know, his front, his proconsul. . ."

"No, I didn't know . . ."

"It was staring at you, though."

"I don't follow you."

"What is implicit in 'Aloysius Swann' if not 'a blank cygnal'?"

Savorgnan sighs, continuing, "As this is obviously my last call,

my last hurrah, may I know how it is that I'm to quit this world

of ours? For, if I know you, you won't disappoint your victim

with any humdrum sort of killing!"

uOh la la" says Swann, cackling, "I can think of about 5 amus-

ingly roundabout ways of killing you.

"I could first of all, finding you caught up in a work of fiction,

a book by Zola, say, from his Rougon-Macquart saga (but not

L'Assomnwir, possibly Nana) - I could hand you a fruit that had

a bomb in it: an apricot, a cantaloup, or possibly an ananas, that

sanguinary fruit that Lyndon B. Johnson, day in, day out, would

drop on Hanoi, not giving a hoot for any notion of supranational

rights, as many political symposia would forthrightly affirm. Any-

way, my cunning apparatus would go off just as, hot and thirsty,

you cut your ananas in two, so blowing you sky-high.

"Or I could also, using a nodal cord, submit to amputation,

mutilation, incision, ablation, castration, abscission, scission,

omission or division that most vital part of your body - your

cock, your prick, your manly organ - or, possibly, by a kind of

phallic symbolism, just your snout, an act that would kill you off

within six months at most.

"Or, if I sought a truly outlandish solution, I could, in a

country wood in which you had a habit of taking your consti-

tutional, look, in an oak or a birch, for a good roosting spot for

birds and submit its occupants to a fatal quantity of radioactivity

(a milligram of uranium would do, its fission producing a strong

gamma ray). In addition, not far from that oak or birch, I'd

2 7 4

simply drop a big bag of fondants — I know how fond of fondants

my old chum Arthur is. So, strolling to and fro, idly larking

about, nibbling on cat's-tails and cowslips, you catch sight of this

alluring bag of bonbons. Pouncing gluttonously on it, you sit

down to stuff your gob and, just at that instant, from out of

said oak or birch, birds start dropping on to you, birds full of

radioactivity, irradiating your body with maximum impact.

"Or I could go about it this way.

"You'd fly out to Japan for a gala. In Tokyo, for I know your

skill at Go, you'd no doubt want to watch a foolhardy tyro taking

on a champion, Kaku Takagawa, a 'Kan Shu', if not actually a

'Kudan', in a local charity match - taking him on, as I say, but

obviously with a strong handicap to assist him, not a 'fiirin' but

a 'Naka yotsu'. Kaku Takagawa would start with a 'Moku had-

zushi' and, his antagonist lost in a 'Ji dori Go' as clumsy as it was

vain (what you should play is, as you know, Arthur, a Takamoku

Kakari'), would triumphantly follow it up with an 'Ozaru' (or

'Grand Baboon's Gambit', as it's still known) and, rounding it

off with a brilliant 'Oi Otoshi', win by a 'Naka oshi gatchi', to

acclamation from an approving public.

"But, Takagawa having won his match, a production of a Noh

play would follow, a play you'd find both long and mystifying.

You'd want at first to go, but, out of tact to your hosts, you'd

try to follow it for an act or so and, by constantly consulting a

fitfully illuminating synopsis, try to grasp a word, a look, a sound,

a hint of fury, of sorrow, of passion, that would allow you to

know what it was all about, allow you to know what was going

on not all that far from your fourth-row chair but what simply

wasn't swimming into focus, just as a man who, rapt in a book,

a work of fiction, constandy hoping for a solution, for a solution

that's driving him crazy by lurking just out of his grasp, a solution

that has had throughout, in fact from its first word, an infuriating

habit of staring at him whilst continually avoiding his own scru-

tiny, might find, advancing into its story, nothing but ambiguous

mystification and rationalisation, obscurantism and obfiiscation,

2 7 5

all of it consigning to a dim and murky chiaroscuro that ambition,

so to say, that lit its author's lamp.

"So at last, worn out by such taxing brainwork, you'd nod off,

just as a dog would if Pavlov, stimulating it with a salivating

aroma, didn't follow it up with a gift of a juicy chop, thus maxi-

mally inhibiting its cortico-subcortico-cortical circuit, that which

controls its instincts, its 'arousal', as biologists say. And, at that

instant, I'd find it child's play to bump you off.

"Or, finally (I told you, did I not, that I had 5 options), I

could attack you whilst idly strolling in a public park admiring

statuary by such as Girardon or Coustou, Gimond or, most par-

ticularly, Rodin. All I'd do is clutch in my fist a jack, a car jack, so

that, as you stood in front of a Rodin, say, studying its imposing

contours, I'd simply undo that bolt that maintains it upright,

causing it to fall and crush you."

"Nobody, I think," says Arthur Wilburg Savorgnan, "could

claim that I was lacking in humour. So I applaud your final spasm

of imagination. But, if you want my opinion, I truly don't know

how you could, at this instant, bring about my downfall in any

such outlandish fashion. For, if I'm not wrong, this room con-

tains nothing at all of what you want - no igniting fruit or nodal

cord or radiating birds or Go board or Rodin statuary."

"Don't think I'm not conscious of that," says Swann icily. "But

I'm carrying at my hip a plaything that I find is just as handy!"

So saying, Swann draws out a Smith-Corona pistol and, with-

out pausing for an instant, shoots Savorgnan point-blank.

"Voila," says Squaw, in a sort of monosyllabic singsong, "all

kaput. All kaput. Who would think it? And, you know, I find

this conclusion just a tiny bit anticlimactic, a tiny bit Much Ado

About Nothing, a bit irritating, a bit discouraging, don't you

think?"

"Oh, cht va piano va sano," says Swann, smiling. "All kaput, as you say. And all worthy of absolution; all, I pray, worthy of

magnanimity and pardon. For, though guilty of many criminal

acts, of many sins, our companions did, you must admit, furnish

2 7 6

a constant and unfailing collaboration. And I can think of many

a protagonist, factual or fictional, who hasn't had to put up with

so rigorous a constraint. In this story, though, our lot would

confront it unflinchingly from start to finish . . ."

"Shut up," murmurs Squaw, to Swann's mortification, "you

talk too much . . ."

"So now," says Squaw again, "is this actually our Finis Coronat

Opus? Is this how our story must finish? Is this its last word?"

"It is," says Swann, "it is. This circuitous labyrinth, through

which all of us would drift with a somnambulist's languorous

gait, driving our plot forward with our contribution to it, our

participation in it, moving on and on, braving its paralysing

taboo, concocting out of that taboo, to a point of saturation, a

story which, with all its manifold ramifications, would abolish

what you might call its random factor only at a cost of our giving

up any claim to a solution, similar to a lamp illuminating, and

fitfully, only part of our path, according us only a hint, an inkling,

of what is lying in front of us, of what is awaiting us - it is, I

say, fast approaching its conclusion, its last word. But Franz

Kafka said it first: you know what your goal is but you don't

know of any path to that goal and what you call a path is only

your own blind, groping doubt.

"All of us did, notwithstanding, go forward, slowly, haltingly,

approaching a final point, for a final point was obligatory in a

story such as ours, imagining, too, on occasion, that it was obvi-

ous what that final point was, confronting a 'What?' with a That5,

a Why' with a Tor\ a 'How5 with a This Way' or a 'That Way'.

"But an illusion was always lurking in such solutions, an illu-

sion of wisdom, wisdom to which not any of us could truly lay

claim, not our protagonists, not our author, and not I, Swann,

his faithful right hand, and it was that lack of wisdom, that

chronic inability of ours to grasp what was actually going on,

that had us talking away, constructing our story, building up its

idiotic plot, inflating all its intrinsic bombast, its absurd hocus-

pocus, without at any instant attaining its cardinal point, its

2 7 7

horizon, its infinity, that climactic coda of harmony out of which

a solution would at long last loom,

but approaching, by an inch, by a micron, by an angstrom,

that fatal point at which,

without that taboo constituting us and uniting us and drawing

us apart,

a void,

a void with its brass hands,

a void with its cold, numb hands,

a void rubbing out its own inscription,

a void assuring this Book, of all Books, a truly singular purity

and immaculation, notwithstanding all its markings in ink and

paragraphs of print,

a void brings our story to its conclusion."

2 7 8

P O S T S C R I P T

On that ambition, conspicuous throughout this tiring book

which you will soon shut, having had your fill of it without,

I trust, skipping too much - on that ambition, so to say,

which lit its author's lamp

My ambition, as Author, my point, I would go so far as to say

my fixation, my constant fixation, was primarily to concoct an

artifact as original as it was illuminating, an artifact that would,

or just possibly might, act as a stimulant on notions of construc-

tion, of narration, of plotting, of action, a stimulant, in a word,

on fiction-writing today.

Whilst, in my first books, writing principally about my situ-

ation, my psychology, my social background, my capacity (or

incapacity) of adaptation, my mania for commodification (almost

tantamount, as is said on occasion, to what you might call "thing-

ification"), it was my wish, by drawing inspiration from a

(modish) linguistic dogma claiming primacy for what Saussurian

structuralists call a signifiant - it was my wish, I say, to polish

up this tool that I had at my disposal, a tool that until now I

would ply without pain or strain; not that it was my ambition

to diminish any contradiction intrinsic to such a constraint nor,

naturally, that I was wholly unconscious of it, but by contrast

that I thought I might fulfil such an ambition by fully assuming

that (as I say) modish structuralist dogma, which was, in my

writing of this book, not a handicap, not a constriction, but, all

in all, a spur to my imagination.

What was my purport in imposing this constraint? Offhand,

with hindsight, I can think of many factors bubbling about in

2 8 1

my brain, but I ought to admit right away that its origin was

totally haphazard, touch and go, a flip of a coin. It all got out

of hand with a companion calling my bluff (I said I could do it,

this companion said I could not); and I should admit, too, that

so inauspiciously shaky was that launching pad, I had no inkling

at all that, as an acorn contains an oak, anything solid would

grow out of it.

Initially I found such a constraint faintly amusing, if that; but

I stuck to my guns. At which point, finding that it took my

imagination down so many intriguing linguistic highways and

byways, I couldn't stop thinking about it, plunging into it again

and again, at last giving up all my ongoing work, much of which

I was actually about to finish.

So was born, word by word, and paragraph by paragraph, a

book caught within a formalist grid doubly arduous in that it

would risk striking as insignificant anybody ignorant of its sol-

ution, a book that, crankily idiosyncratic as it no doubt is, I

instantly found thoroughly satisfying:

a) I, as an author, having not an iota of inspiration (and, in

addition, placing no faith at all in inspiration as a Platonic form!)

was displaying in this book just as much imagination as a Ponson

or a Paulhan; and (b) I was, most notably, and to my own total

gratification, slaking a thirst as constant as it is callow (not to

say childish): a soft spot on my part - what am I saying? a passion

- for accumulation, saturation, imitation, quotation, translation

and automatisation.

And soon, my faith in my ability to carry it off growing day

by day, I thought I might start giving my plotting a symbolic

turn, so that, by following my book's story hand in hand until

totally coinciding with it, it would point up, without blatantly

divulging, that Law that was its inspiration, that Law from which

it would draw, not without occasional friction, and not without

occasional vulgarity, but also not without occasional humour,

nor, I think, without brio, a rich, fruitful narration, honing my

writing skills in unthought-of ways.

2 8 2

I was thus to grasp a significant fact: that, just as, say, Frank

Lloyd Wright built his own working and living conditions, so

was I fashioning, mutatis mutandis, a prototypical product which

- spurning that paradigm of articulation, organisation and

imagination dominant in today's fiction, abandoning for good

that rampant psychologisation which, along with a bias towards

mawkish moralising (in fact, not so much mawkish as downright

mawk), is still for most critics a mainspring of our national gift for

(or myth of?) "clarity" and "proportion" and "polish" - sought inspiration in a linguistic avant-gardism virtually unknown in this

country, and for which no critic has a good word in so far as

it's known at all, but which allows of a possibility of imitating,

simulating and honouring a tradition that has brought forth a

Gargantua and a Tristram Shandy and a Mathias Sandorf and a Locus Solus and (why not?) a Bijur or a Four bis, books for which I had sworn undying admiration, without daring to harbour any

illusions that I might possibly attain in any of my own works

such jubilation and such fanciful humour, by dint of irony and

wit, paradox and prodigality, by dint, in short, of an imagination

knowing just how far to go too far.

So, as I think, in this work, for all that its origin was chaotic,

I finally did satisfy most of my goals and obligations. Not only

did I spin out a fairly straightforward story but I had a lot of fun

with it (wasn't it Raymond Q. Knowall who said that it was

hardly worth writing if it was simply as a soporific?), fun, princi-

pally (by locating and disclosing that contradiction in which all

syntactic, structural or symbolic signification is bound up), in my

ambition of participating, of collaborating, in a common policy

to adopt a radical, wilfully conflictual position vis-a-vis fiction, a

position that, implicitly critical as it is of a Troyat, a Mauriac, a

Blondin or a Cau, of any Quai Conti, Figaro or Prix Goncourt

hack, might still chart a path along which fiction could again find

an inspiration, a charm, a stimulus, in narrational virtuosity of a

sort thought lost for good.

2 8 3