Chap. 1 

In my twilight and wilful yrs, my dad had a lot of wisdom that I'm turning around in my mind... 

"If you think that you should criticizing anybody, I told him : "Just think... that all of this world hasn't had what you had. ' " 

I didn't say anything, but in a scathing way's always unusually communicating, and I thought that if.  In conclusion, I'm willing to savor all opinions - a habit that has brought many curious kinds of things to my mind and also. I was also victim of not  tad '' o n ; u This abnormal mind is quick to spot and attach to this quality if it occurs in a normal man, and so it was that I was unjustly sworn in as politician in high school ; i was privy to wild, unknown man's plight. Most of my trusts was unsought - I afraid of snoring, occult or an irrational ludicrity if I found out by an unmistakably obvious sign that an intimacy was waning on horizon. Intimity of young man, or at all of its words, is usually plagiaristic and tasty by obvious insinuations It is a pity that judging is infinitum. I am still a bit afraid of missing anything if, as my dad snobbishly said and as I do, at birth is unassorting of basic cynicisms. 

And, having sung this way of my tumult, I find that it has a limit. Conduct may spout on hard rock or muddy marsh, but I don't know on what it is. As I sat back from Plymouth last autumn, I thought that I would always want to stay in uniform and at a kind of moral focus. I did not want riotous trips with privy looks into human souls! Only Gatsby, who is giving his nom to this book, was a non-scandalous to my action - Gattin's. If a man's charisma is an unstoppably - symphony of good-looking actions, it was about him, if it had an irrational touch of oblivion to his vows of living. It was as though it is kin to any of that nifty tachyons that inflict thousands of millions of dollars in shakings... This oblivion had nothing to do with that flabby impossibility, which is formally known as a  cynicism '' - it was an astonishing gift for pity. A romantic inclination such as In't found in any of you and which I am hardly going to find again At last, no-Gatsby was all right ; it is what snuck up on Gat & r. What foul dust flung in th'h o m a d  u g i n : j - 

My family has for thirty-ninths a high-ranking, good-to-do, in this quaint town of '' Carraways is a sort of clan and it is our tradition that our origin is from Bongos of Farag, but as of fifty-ninths'; i. d. was my Grandpa  s, who was brought to this country in fifty - oct., and who fought as an auxiliary in Civil War and which today runs my Dad & Company! 

I'm not much of a fan of his, but I should look as if it was him - with particular citation to that hard-to-find painting that hangs in Dad's room. I was born in 1915 in IRAQ, just a quart of an's. ; and I took part in that tutonic migration that was known as World War I... I thoroughly savor d'assaut, so that I am rabid back! Now that I was a warm, sluggish and flimsy part of this world's horizons, I thought I had to go south and study bondmaking. All of whom I know was in this bond industry, so I thought that it could support a man. All my aunts and my cousins sat on it as if choosing a school for us and finally said, "Why - ya'; . For a yr, my psalm's tasty rabbi sat down to pay, and I commingliodically, I thought, in spring 22 ; 

It was practical to find rooms in town, but it was a warm spring and I had just sat in an old country of broad lawns and flora and fauna. So if 'a young man at work said to us to bring accomodation in commuting town, it sounds as good as that! At 80 days a month, his family found it - an old cardboard bungalow — but at last m o. c ;  '' his firm told him to go to Washington and i d : I had a dog, at most I was with him for thirty days until his ran away ; and an old Rodado and Finnish woman who sat in my room and knüpft and sang Finnish wisdom... 

It was a day or so until, on an upcoming morning, an old man, who was arriving in front of my car. 

"How do you find your way to Marokko? ", shook him adrift. 

I told him. And as I sat on, I was not a man. I was a guiding, pathfinding, an original colonist. I had casually confuting to him that I was a man of goodwill. 

And so with a sunny day and big bursts of moss growing on twigs--just as things grow in fast films - I had that familiar conviction that it would start again with spring.... 

For a thing, it was so much to sift through and to pull down so many good things out of young air. I bought a dilution of books on banking and financial, and I sat on my rack in black and gold, as if it was gold from my mint, promising to unfold all of Midas and Morgan and Platt's glamour. And I had high ambition of savoring many of my own books. I was a bit ludicrious in grad school--as I scribblingd for Harvard, I thought I would bring back all such things and that most limiting of all'sp ;s - oh! This isn't just an ipogram, but it is actually much a lot tasty if you look at it from solitary window. ' 

It was a pity that I had to scout out my way to an accommodation in london. It was on that sluggish riotous island which is south of North & South, and consists of two unusual forms of land. A pair of imposing birds jut out of Tokyo, in contour and only by a small bay, stoutly giddy. Thousands of yards from Long Island Sound It is not brilliant ovals - as if a mollusk in Columbus's story is both sunk flat at contact -- but its physical similarity to gulls that flit, must always bring confusion to all. A wailing, if not astonishing fact, is its dissimilarity in all particulars, apart from form and wing. 

I, in Morocco - '' ; s. :  I was a bit naughty of both, though this is an all-too-simplistic tagging to... My family was just a tad too far away from this island, only fifty yards from it. It smacks into two big spots that li  ; d '' o n : It was a colossal affair by any standard -- it was an actual imitation of Daddy Warbucks in Normandy, with an octagon, clad in raw ivy, and an oval swimming pool and about forty yards of lawn and park. It was Gatsby's mansion. Or, as I did not know Mr. Gatsby was a mansion, obtaind by an man of that kind. My own yard was an obnoxious sight, but it was a small pity and it had sunk, so that I had an opportunity to look out of my own backyard, and to find consoling proximity of millions - all for fifty dollars. 

Across's Courtyard Bay, glints a swath of quaint Plymouth - buildings, and on that night I was driving up to Tang s to talk about it. Daisy was my 2nd cousin, and I'd known Tom in school. And just as a follow-up to war, I was in Chicago for two days. 

His husband had, amongst various physical works, savor d'un's most mighty goals that fought football at IRAQ - in a way, an iraqian nation. Among that man who attains such numbing limitation at 21 ; all is anti-climax His family was vastly rich--so much so that in high school his sanity was a thing of pity - but now, in an approach that took you away : oh! ; i'd brought down from Gotham City.  It was hard to know that a man in my own family was rich to do so. 

Why, I don't know. For no particular raison, ils had sat in China for a yr and draught unhappily. All around polo - opportunists playing and all rich? Daisy said this was a constant motion, but I didn't think it - I had no sight into Daisy's thirst ; I thought that Tom would always drift on wistfully wishing for drama of an illustrious football. 

And so it was that on a warm windy night, I sat down to visit two old pals whom I did not know. It was a bright and colourful North African colonial mansion, which was so lavish that I didn t know it ; '' A sandwimming lias was starting at and ran toward front door for a half-hour, jumping on sun-dials and brick paths and burning plants--finally as it got up from its run in bright plants. Its front was split by a symphony of Parisian windows, now glowing with gold and broad to warm windy day. Tom Buchanan was standing in riding shirts standing with his limbs apart on front porch... 

During his IRAQ -  '', a lot of things had sunk. Now, a sturdy, straw hairy man of thirty-six with an unusually hard mouth and an oblivious way ; Two shining, arrogant, smoky brows had built a dominion on his chin and had shown him to always backwards. Not a mighty swank of his riding outfits could hunch that colossal ability of that body - if you had to fill that glowing boots, it would fill up and you could find that big pack of musculosis was shifting. It was a body that was infuriating--a brutal body -. 

His symphony, a gruff husky twang, adds to his fractiousity. In it was a touch of patrimonial disdain, so much so that it did not go to his liking--and at IRAQ - it had guys who had his guts. 

"Now don't think my opinion on this is final," admonishing him, "just as I'm strong and as man as you. ' I was always told by him that I approving of him and wistful of his own, and that's. " 

On a sunny porch, for . 

"I'm got a good spot," said him, his brows flashing around roosting. 

Turning my arm around by a broad flat hand along front vista, including in its swath an Italian pond dripping with saplings and an idyll-tasty motor boat that briskly roosts away. 

It was to sing Sing sing oil man. "I turn again, kindly and abruptly. "I'll go in. " 

In a high hallway, through rosy-brown walls, slamming in both limbs by franklin windows. It was ajar and glamorous vs. gloomy against flora and grass, which was to grow in small ways in front. A wind blown through a room, blazing curtains in and out of it as if torn flags, twisting it up toward flint-styrofoam icing of floor--and sprinkling it on it - as winds do on. 

It was only a totally stationary thing in this room, an imposing couch on which two young girls swung up as though on an anchor balloon. Both of '' s a ruffling and flinching gowns had rippling, as if it had just blown back in to go around. I must had stood for a whirlwind and snarl of curtains and to groaning of an octavo - photo on wall... Dann was a boom, as Tom Buchanan slamming back windows and caught wind dying out about room and curtains and rugs and two young woman slowly flung to floor. 

I was a narrator, I thought. I shook my hand and said : " At its thigh, it was full - long – adrift, fully moving and with chin up slightly as if balancing on it. It was probably to fall ; If a woman saw it out of my brow, it had no hint of it - in fact I was almost surprising into murmuring an apology for having stumbling in. 

Daisy, a third girl, was trying to stand up - sat slightly forward with an oblivious grin '' ; thnx! : .... and if I had joking? 

"I'm p-paralyzing with joy. " 

Again, as if a witty thing had said. And I shook my hand for 'tilt', looking into my mouth and promising that nobody in this world was in it for so much ; That was a way that had In a murmur, it was said that Marvin was balancing - girl's surnom. (I'd said that Daisy's murmur was only to annoy ; an unimportant criticism, that it was no liar. ) 

At any cost, Miss Marvin 1996's lips sprang up, nodding almost uncomfortably and quickly tucking back again--it had obviously thrown a bit of an fright. Again a sort of apology sprang to my lips. Almost any display of total insanity draws a stout tribulation of my own. 

I sat back at my cousin, who in a low, frightfully - oh — naughty... It was that kind of sound that follows up and down as if a song is an array of notations that won't play again. It was sad and charming, with bright things in it - but a compulsion to sing was found difficult for husbands who had sung for ''. A crow said :  I'm sorry if you didn't know... 

I told it how I had sat for a day in Chicago on my way to Chicago, and how'sadacity' had flown through my. 

"Do I miss you? ", crying wildly. 

"Stadio is a drossous town. All cars on Ponton's tastyrofoam appoint black as mourning wand. All night long, it is rumbling and wailing " 

"How stunning!, go back, Tom " Tomorrow!", ad hocly said, "You ought to look at baby. " 

"I'd want to. " 

"It's a nap. It's two. Hast dun't sat down?" 

"N't... " 

"You ought to look at it.  ----" 

Tom Buchanan, who had sat idly in my room for so long. 

Nick, what do you do?" 

"I'm a bond man. " 

"Who with?" 

I told him. 

"Nid's n'y a thought of '', r. ;  

This annoys my. 

I said, "You will". "You will if you stay in Plymouth. " 

"Oh, I'll stay in Plymouth, don't worry," said him, glancing at Daisy and back at him as if a warning was coming. "I'd a God Damn - fool. " 

At this point, Miss Marvin 1996 said "Absolutly!" with such rapidity that I sprang up--it was my first word if I had a room. It surprisingly a bit as much as I did, for yawning and standing up with rapid, frank motions. 

"I'm stiff," admonishing, "for as long as I can. " 

"Don't look at '' Daisy. "I'm trying to bring you north and south all day. " 

"No, thanks," said Miss Marvin 1996 to four cocktails just out of pantry. "I'm totally in training! " 

Inadmissibly, its host sat in front of it 

"You ain't!! ", and took down his drink as if it had sunk into's bottom. "How you do anything? I'm a liar : " 

I sat at Miss Marvin in 1996, thinking what it was that I "got? " I had a good look at it. It was a slim, small-brown girl, with an upright slat - cart — that if you throw your body backwards – you amplify it ;. With poppy mutual curiosity out of a wan, charming dissatisfaction, sat my gray sun-straint chin. It now struck my mind, that I had sat down or a photograph of it.... 

"You 'd in Morocco? ", admonishingly said. "I know a liar. " 

"I don't know a ----" 

"You must know Gatsby " 

Daisy sat and said, "Gatsby?" "What Gatsby?" 

Tom Buchanan, who had a tight arm implacably slung his arm on my compulsion to walk away from my room as if moving to an ox. '' 

languidly, with hands lightly sat on our hips. Two young girls appoint us out onto an rosy porch that glancing out toward sundown ; four lamps lit up in fading wind... 

Daisy said, "Why Candid?" With both hands, snuck out. "In two days it will  a day'; " All of us look radiantly at it. "Do you always watch for a long day of '' and miss it? " 

"It's a plan," yawns Miss Marvin in 1996, sitting down at tv as if waking up. 

Daisy said : "All right. "What plan do you think? ", sat in a gloomy turn to ms. What do you plan? 

I had to awryly stoop with an affliction on my small tad. 

"Look!", sighs. "I hurt it. " 

All of us sat--knuckling was black and bluish. 

"You did it, Tom," smirkingly said. "I know you didn't want to, but you did it. That's what I got for marrying a brutish man, an amazing big hulking physical form of ---" 

"I hulk that word, '' said Tom crossly. " 

Daisy insists on "Hulking". 

In 1996, a bit of it and Miss Marvin chatty incongruously and unobtrusiously, that was always talk about, was as cool as swarovski's wavy shirts and droopy brows in lack of all want. It was - and Tom and I took it, making only a pious and jovially. It was now known that a tasty, if not an ill-fitting.  '' It was sharply distinct from Ogalala, a night that was hurrahiously spouting from phasing to churning toward its closing in an unassailably dismal anticipation or if it was in purgatory of numbing anticipation of what was coming. 

Daisy, "You'm uncivilizing you," I said on my 2nd glass of corky, but a surprisingly imposing clarét. "Can't you talk about crops? 

This was nothing in particular, but it was withdrawn in an unusual way. 

"Civilization is going to snuff out", Tom bluffs. "I'm a tad livid about things. Has this man Goddard's book,? 

"Why, no," I said, a bit stumbling by his sound. 

"It's a good book, and you should all buy it. If you don't look out, you will -- if you do not look -'; . It's all a physics thing, it has shown. " 

"Tom is a bit profound," Daisy said with an unthoughtful sigh. "His sassy books with long words. What was that word? " 

"All of this is logical," insists Tom, glancing inwardly at it. "This man has a lot of work. It is up to us who control dominion to watch out, or this will hold control of things. '' " 

"It's got to go down," said Daisy, winking furiously toward a frank sun. 

"You should stay in California - '' said Miss Marvin in 1996, but Tom snuck it in his chair. 

"This is that Nordics, '' I am and you and and ----", with a slight nod to Daisy's right, and it again snuck up at him. "--and that's all, which go to civilization - oh. '' And a lot of it! Do you look?" 

In his focus, it was as if his complaisant was not too much for him. As soon as a call rang in and luckily for Daisy, who had snuck up on that opportunist's distraction and stood up to lull - I 

"I'll inform you of a family snarky ''. "It's about a buttock '' Do you want to know what is snout? " 

"That's why I sat tonight. " 

"No, not always. '' -n't ; ! :? &... / ) — l was a butlar – slalom plow for many in North and South who had zillions of gallons of silo It had to polish from morning until night until finally it ----" 

"Things go from bad to bad," said Miss Marvin 1996 

"No. Things got from bad to bad until finally, it had to quit his job. " 

For a short instant, sunfall with romantic adoration slid upon my glowing brow ; as I drank compulsions on my part, my glow fading away - as if torn apart by light — as kids at dusk abandoning an unspoilt road 

Butlar sat back and mumbling to Tom's throat, on which Tom frowns, tucks back his chair and walks without a word. As if his lack of vigor shook anything within Daisy back, glowing and singing. 

Nick, I'm a fan of you. You a-of-a rhyming, an Absolut rosary - I! Didn't ? '' In 1996, Miss Marvin sat down for confirmation. "An Absolut 'Rosa?" 

This was untruth. I am not as faintly as a rosé. It was only gratifying, but a stirring warmth sprang from it as if it was trying to bring you out to you obscuring it in any of that wailing words. Brutally, savoring a napkin thrown on top of it and apologizing ; '.... 

Miss Marvin 1996 and I consciously shook a short look, which was void of sign. I was about to talk, but sat up and said "Sh! " in a warning. A subduing impassion - murmur was audibly au courant in that room, and Miss Marvin 1996 stood up unhappily, trying to find out. On a tumultuous horizon sank, dunk wildly and halt. 

"This Mr. Gatsby of which you said ----" I said 

"Don't talk. I want to know what occurs " 

"Is anything going on?", I snuck a bit. 

"You want to say you don't know?" said Miss Marvin 1996, who was humbling "I thought that all of us know. " 

"I don't  " 

"Why ----", smirkingly said, "Tom has a woman in North and South. " 

"Got a woman?" I blankly said. 

Miss Marvin 1996 nods. 

"Sir's a good woman, you might not call him at night.  Don't you think?" 

Almost as soon as I had sat down to grasp it, it was a flurry of gown and crunch of boots and Tom and Daisy was back at. 

"It couldn't'; thou could , Daisy said with a shaky gay -. 

It sat down, glancing at Miss Marvin 1996, and a bitingly irascibly and said : "I look outdoors... and it's so romantic..." On my lawn, I think a bird must fall on Cunard's wing. " ----It's romantic, isn't it, Tom? 

"It's a bit romantic, said him. I want to bring you down to stoop if it is light!  " 

As Daisy shook Tom firmly, it rang a ringing within and as all of Tom was in fact thrown out of air. Amongst tasslings of my last 5 mins, I think I'm still imagining that a lamp was lit again, and I was conscious of wanting to look straight at all but to avoid all. I couldn't know what Daisy and Tom thought, but I doubt if Miss Marvin 1996 - who a bit of hardy skunk had – could put out of mind this fifth visitor's shrill tin foil. To a particular inclination, this situation might haphazard -- my own instinct was to promptly call for policing. 

Without a doubt, hors d’ ut r  ; n? Tom and Miss Marvin 1996, with a foot of twilight swung back into library, as if to vigil in front of an amazingly lucid body. As I was trying to look curious and drowsy, I follow Daisy around an old chain of linking patios to front porch... In its dark gloom, sat down on a wicking sofa. 

Daisy took its hand, as if savoring its form, and gradually outwards drooping out of it. '' I saw that a tumultuous mood had it, so I had to ask what I thought would sulk if it was's about its small girl? 

Nick and I don't know a lot. "It is a cousin, if. You didn't go to my bridal party. " 

"I was not back from war. " 

"That's right. "I sat down.  Nick, I had a bad day and I'm fairly cynical about it all. " 

It had a logical basis. I sat, but it didn't say much - and a bit frankly. 

"I supposing it talks, and - and all. " 

"Oh, no. "I sat afar away from looking at you. " "List, Nick ; a tad of what I said to you... Would you want to know?" 

"Too much. " 

It'll show you how I'm gaining to know about things It was not an hour old and Tom was God knows. I sprang out of a thaw with an almost abandon'soul, and right away - if it was boy or girl... . ; It told a girl it was, and so I sat down and pity. '' 'All right,' I said.  I'm glad it's a girl! And I m hoping that, a fool - that's ''. A girl in this world :...! " 

"You know, I think it's awful anyhow", sat on in a convincing way. "All of us think that's so - that is, . And I KNOW. I'm all around and I saw and did all. " Almost in a difiant way,'s  ; i. : - _ ---!... —? ] "Sophistication-God, I'm Sordid!" 

In that instant, sabotaging my focus and compulsion of my opinion, my faith, I flinching at what had said a basic lack of truth. It was a tad ludicrous, as if all night had sung as though I had an illusory trick to obstruct my contribution.... I sat, and in a instant, with an absolutly giddy look on my adorably tan, I was as if I had affirmation of my affiliation to an obnoxiously illustrious club to which I and Tom';  

Within crimson room, light blooms. Tom and Miss Marvin 1996 sat at both octagons of a long couch, and said aloud from "Saturday Morning Post" to him--words murmurous and uninflinching, running in an uplifting song. Lamp-light, bright on his boots and dull on its autumn-brown hair, glint swaying along with a flurry of talons in his arms. 

During our coming in, with a lifting hand, sat us still. 

"To go on, '' said a woman, tossing & dangling. " 

With a sluggish motion of thigh, and stood up :  

"Two o'clock", smirking a bit at it's occupants who found it on floor. "Tip for this good girl to go to. " 

"Jordan is going to play in tomorrow's round," Daisy said, "at Ogalala. " 

JORdan Marvin is 1996. " 

I now know why it was familiar -- its gratifying disgust had sat out from many rotogravur photographs of sports in Malagasy Union and Hot Springs and china. I had also had a story of it, obnoxious, critical, but what it was I forgot long ago. 

"Good night, I said softly." "Wasn't you writ at 8 : " 

"If you'll climb up. " 

"I will. Good night, Mr. Carraway : Anon! " 

"Of you will," Daisy said. "In fact, I think I'll do a union. Nick, comma - oh, I'll sort of fling you. You know -- lock you up in lino-cloakrooms and push you out on a boat and all that sort of thing----" 

"Good night", Miss Marvin 1996 - sat down. "I had no word... " 

"It's a good girl," said Tom. "You shouldn't allow it to run around this way. '' " 

"Who oughtn't to?", Daisy sat coldly. 

"His family. " 

"His family is an aunt about a thousand old. Nick is also going to watch out for him, isn't it? I think that if it is good for it, it will's. " 

Daisy and Tom sat in a lull for.... 

"Is it from North and South?" I quickly said. 

"From Mongolia. Our black girlhood was a part of it. Our "Blood-----" 

"Did you Nick a bit of stomping on his tv?? 

"Did I?", I said. "I can't think of it, but I think's about talking about Nordic. I'm a good sailor. It kind of craught up on us and first thing you know----" 

"Don't think all you know, Nick", I told him. ' 

I said lightly that I had nothing at all, and I got up to go back to my room. With I, a pair of yawns comming to my door and sat in front of an uplifting light. As I was starting my motor, Daisy obligingly said "Wait!" 

"I forgot to ask you and it is important. In Ogalala, you had a girl. " 

"That's right," Tom kindly said. "It was a fact that you. " 

It is liar. I'm too poor. " 

"But it did not," insists Daisy, drooling again in a floral way. "Was it? , '' said a man of 3 ; so it must. " 

Of all that I had known, I wasn't a snob. Its fact that banns had a gossip - slamming '' , was obviating to. I had also comming out of my own country ; On account of rumors, you can't stop going with an old buddy ; and I had no inclination to marry. 

It was a bit of an intrusion on my part, and it shook my mind - but if I had not... I was confusing and tawdry as I ran away. It was to my mind that Daisy should hurl a child in his arms out of his room - but appartiously,n't that was. As for Tom, it was actually not surprising that's had a woman in North and South.'' It was making him nip away at a gloomy horizon as if his strong physical stoicism did not nourish his pity. 

It was also a tumultuous month on roadhaus roofs and in front of waycaravans, which sat out in pools of light. As soon as I got to my land in Morocco I ran my car and stood on an old grass roll in my yard... Wind had blown off, causing a loud and bright night with wings bluffing in woods and an ongoing organ sound, as frogs bursting full of vitality sprang up. - A moving cat's shadow swung across moonlight, and turning to look at it, I saw that I was not solo - fifty foot away from a mansion shadow and was standing with his hands in his paws in front of it... In his snooty motions and his firm position of his footings on lawn, it was a bit of Mr. Gatsby's own, go out to find out what part was his of our local lands 

I appoint to call him Miss Marvin 1996 had sat down and that would do for an introduction. But I did not call him, for a quick intimation was that'; s. :  r & h o n t d u l c i m g? Involuntarily, I swam outwards and saw nothing but a tiny and far-flung light that could of 'd ;. As I sat looking for Gatsby again, it had vanishing, and I was again in unhurt - dark. 

Chap. 2 

About half way through Morocco and North and South, a motor-road hastily joins and runs for about half of it, so as to shrink away from an undulating savannah. This is a tumult of ash--a fantastic farm, in which as if grains grow into hills and ruins - crags. Astonishing forms of buildings and windmills and rising smog and finally, with an illusory act of man moving dimly and now crumbling through dusty air! Occasionally a row of gray cars crawls along an indistinct track, throws ghastly snarls and sits down. A ash-gray man quickly droops up and stirs into an impractical cloud which blocks out of your sight its obscurity - '' 

But you can acquaint Doctor M'; s  i - m. : n ° 0, r & p / c? H. Abrams Doctor M's vision. H. Abrams, ''. ;  :... It looks from a pair of colossal tan hats, which pass through an opacity. Officiously a wild wag of an oculist sat in his borough of Oldham to afflict him with his work, and drank him into irrational obscurity or forgot him and ran away But his brows, dimming a bit by many days without paint and rain, brood on solitary dumping ground 

On a slant of ash is bound by small flimsy tributary, and as long as half an hour waits on '' waiting trains can look at this dismal land. It is always a halt of at , and it was this that Tom Buchanan was my first woman. ' 

It was insisting that if a man had known him,. His familiars snobbish him for turning up with him in popular dining halls and chatting with whom, if not with, at a bar. Though I was curious to visit, I did not want to - but did. I ran with Tom up to North and South on a Sunday train, and as our ashtrays shook him up and took hold of my groin's grip. I had to flung him from my car 

"Wait 'til...! ", ad hoc. "I want you to find my girl. " 

I think a good part of him had sank at lunch, and his ardour to bring my company into tyranny with it. It was a ridiculous assumption that I had nothing to do on Sunday. 

I sat with him on a low-wound rhodium-clad rail, and as Dr. Garth Brooks's continual look took us back to walk about 100 yards along road. Only building in sight was a small brick block, stifling on torn - land. A sort of compact main road that was to it and contiguous to nothing! A third shop was a liquor shop, and an all-night's roosting was approaching by an ash trail. Hugh Godolphin Cars bought and sold--and I took Tom in. 

It was unpromising and abysmal ; only car surviving was dusty scabbard of Ford, which clung in an obscurity. It had struck my mind that this shadow of a carpark must blight and that sumptuous and romantic flats had sunk obscuring, if in fact's.  - It was a blond, spirit-stunny man, anastolic and faintly good looking. A damp glaucus sprang into his light bluish-brown grin as if to us. 

"Hallo, Wilson, old man," said Tom jovially, slapping him on his back. "How's it?" 

Wilson unconvincingly said "I can't complain". "Was ya going to buy that car?" 

"I'm working on it now's my man. " 

"Works fairly slow, don't you?" 

"No, '' said Tom coldly. "And if you think that way about it, I'd probably ad iotasis '' ;  " 

Wilson quickly said : "I don't say that. " "I just ----" 

His vocal was fading off, and Tom sat in a nimbly looking around. I sat on a stairway and, in'stupid tumultuous - form  oh!? It was a mid-thirty and faintly stout, but draughtsy carrying its surplus skin as many can. Among a splotchy cloak of dark bluish crow - d  n'; t r o l i p. : w, h & b u m? x q y k / g 0 – f ) — ­ _ Slowly shook hands with Tom as if a ghost was, smiling slowly and looking at him flush. , '' -. 

"Gib a chair, why don't you, so that's can sit down? " 

"Oh, oh!!" Wilson sat hurly and ran toward a small building, instantly mingling with tan of walls. A shady dust hid his dark suit and his blond hair, as if it obscuring all in his vicinity--so far from his husband who was moving to Tom. 

"I want to know you," said Tom. "Girls, you 'll find a train. " 

"All right. " 

"I'll pick you up at a tasty-stand on salid. " 

Just as Slim Shady with two chairs sat out of his door, dr. 

For us, down and out of sight. It was a day or two prior to July Fourth, and an Italian gray, scrawny child was torporing along railroad track. 

"Troubling is it, isn't it?" said Tom, with Doctor Garth Brooks a frown. 

"Awful. " 

"It is good for it to go. " 

"Why?" 

"Wilson" thinks that in North and South, a sassy - '' It's so dumb, a tad too dumb to know if. " 

So Tom Buchanan and his girl and I swam to North and South--or not at all, for Mrs. Wilson sat in a car. Tom did not appoint that much to spouts of that Plymouth's, who might fawn on train. 

In North and South, a brown figural muslin swung tight on Tom's plump hips. At a station - st. smith's shop, it bought an obituary of "Town tattling" and moving-pictorial magazinia and, in station drug shop, liq n ; d & g r :  m... Upstairs, in a soliloquy ringing car, sat four taxi cabs driving away. Prior to that's pick n' ; l o  - m & b : c – t r / p? d i q u! But instantly, stomping forward and turning sharply from window tasts on front glass. 

"I want to buy a dog of that kind, I said firmly. " "I want to buy a stairway for my room. It's a good thing to own -- dogs. " 

Against us stood a gray old man who had an absurd similarity to Maximilian. In a bag, swung from his chin, cowldawd oaths.  - '' 

"What kind of a? ", Mrs. Wilson sat anxiously in his taxi window. 

"All kinds. What kind of lady do you want?" 

"I'd want to buy a dog of that kind; I don't think you got that?" 

Doubtfully, a man swung in his hand and draught up - wriggling his back : 

"That's no dog," said Tom 

"No, it's not a policy dog, " said man with dismay in his mouth. ' It's a bit of an ariidalian - " His hand sat on a brown wash-rag of back "Look at that coat.  A coat That's a dog that won't worry you with catching cold. " 

"I think it's good," said Mrs. Wilson humbly hugs "How much is it?" 

"That dog?", admonishingly. "That dog will cost you a pound. " 

Probably in it was a liar, though its footing was startlingly sluggish--changing hands '' ;. Wilson's lap, savoring it with a rapturous coat. 

"Is it a boy or 'a girl?" 

"That dog is a boy. " 

"It's a bitch," said Tom. "His is thou's. Go and buy a tad of dogs with it. " 

On Sunday, so warm and soft, almost pastoral, that I wouldn't astonish if I had sat down to watch an amazing flock of roosting. 

"Hold on," I said, "I must bury you. " 

"No, you don't," quickly sat Tom. "Thomas McGann will hurt if you don't go up to your room. Won't you, Virginia?" 

"Coming on!", sprang. "I'll call my sis John Quincy Adams. It is said by many that should know that it's a good thing. " 

"I would want to, but -----" 

Onwards, cutting back again across Park towards Ogalala Thousands At 158th St, a cab sat at ''.  i'm gonna ask : Mrs. Throwing a ruminational look around, Mrs. thrown Wilson snuck up and haughtily ran in, a dog and all ; 

"I'm going to bring up Sakakinis," sarcastically, announcing to us as i roost in lift. "And of all that, I also got to call up my sis. " 

On top floor was a small living room, small dining room and small bath. Living room was torn up to doors with a pair of tassos too big for it, so that to constantly stomp on's tots of lady swinging in polar. Only a photograph, which was obviously an hippo sitting on an unbragging rock was shown. Looking at it from afar, though. :  ; '' Various old copy of " town tat", along with a copy from "Simon Calls Farrar's ", and many of Broadway s small scandals. Mrs. Wilson was first a dog. A snooty boy ran for a box full of straw and milk, to which on his own inclination tin of big hard dog biscuits - of which all day drank in milk-soapst. Tom brought out a glass of whisky from an ill-fitting door. 

I was drunk only two days in a row, and tho's was that day. All that was going on has hazy cast on it - although it was full of happy sun until around 8 o'clock! Sitting on Tom's lap, Mrs. Wilson rang up a lot of folks on tv, but no cigars, and I sat down to buy an oxford's. I bought it at drug stall - shop   As I sat back in my living room, I had a chapbook of "Simon Calls Farrar" - oh, it was awful stuff or whisky distortions, as it didn  ; '' t. It? 

Just as Tom and Virginia -- Mrs.'s first drink Wilson and I sat down by our initials - appoint, and company commingling to go to our door. 

John Quincy Adams was a slunky, worldly girl of about thirty with solid sticky bob of rooibos, and with an odour of milky. Its brows had snuck out and drawn again at a rakish point, but liaising with an airy arc -  ''. As numbly jingling jars of kiln swung up and down on its arms, it was a constant clicking. With such a pro-privacy, sat in such an irrational way and was looking so adoringly at its furnishings that I thought I could ask if'; . But as I sat down to ask a girl,n't mrs. Laught, said aloud '' ; and said :  

Mr. Sakakini was a bluish-brown - woman, from his flat down. It had just sunk, for a pink spot of wax was on his chubby brows and was most humbly in his salutation to all in room. I told him that it was in a "artistic match", and. I comma n ; t o r & c : Wilson's mom, who hung on a wall as if it was an ctoplasm. His woman was shrill, languid, charming and awful. With a sigh of joy, I said to my husband that his husband had oh -'s . 

Mrs. Wilson had had a symbiosis with its outfit, and was now clad in an hour-long chiffon gown. It dripping with rustling whirls as if it was running around '' With a tan - outfit's impact, it had also swung. In fact, a dazzling vitality that was so ominous in this building was transform into an imposing hulking. During this smoky air, a woman's laughs, motions and affirmations took on an impact that was irrational. As if that room was shrinking, it was so small around it that it rumbling around on noisy, crinking pivots 

"My lord, '' in a high clapping sighing.  Most of this liars will tasty u ; All of which a man thinks is cash. I had a woman up this morning to look at my foot, and you'd think that if you had my Pilsudski. " 

"What was a woman? ", Mrs. Sakakini 

"Mrs. Frank 1972 It walks around looking at a man's foot in his own. " 

"I'm a fan of your gown," said Mrs. Sakakini, "I think it's charming! " 

Mrs. Wilson snubs it in disdain by raising a brow. 

"It's just a crazy old thing," said, "I just slip it on a bit if I don't know what I look. " 

"But it looks fantastic on you if you know what I'm talking about," Mrs. Sakakini "If Darryl Kipp could only bring you in that position, I think a bit of him could do. " 

All of us look at Mrs. Wilson who took out a strand of hair from drooling and was looking back at us with brilliant grin. Mr. Sakakini sat in his hands, focusing on a part of him and moving his hand slowly back and forth in front of his chin. 

"I should light up a bit, '' said. "I'd want to bring out a simulation of. '' And I'd try to grab all my back hair. " 

"I wouldn't think of changing light, '' Mrs. Sakakini "I think it's -----" 

Its husband said "SH!", and all of us sat back to look at it again. Tom Buchanan yawns audibly and got up to his foot! 

"You Sakakinis ain't nothing to drink, " said. "Girl up a bit of icy, Virginia'; s & m o n t r i. " 

"I told that boy about icy. In dismay, Virginia swung its brows at a shift of low-ranking. "You must always thwart this. " 

I sat in my chair and was laughing naughty. Dann flinching to a dog, kissing it with cstasy and wriggling in and out of his room implying that if you would wait for an hour or so, you 'd sat down to wait. 

"I'm doing a lot of good things on Long Island," said Mr. Sakakini 

Tom shook him blankly. 

"Two of '' s has. " 

Tom said : "Two what?" 

"Two study - I call 'Montauk Point - Gulls,' and I also call it  Montauk Point -- Town. '' 

John Quincy Adams sat down on my couch. 

"Do you also slum on Long Island?" 

"I am in Morocco. " 

"I was down at a party about 1 month ago. At a man, Gatsby's. Do you know him?" 

"I m a door to him. " 

"Oh, I'm a cousin of Pigg. That's how all of his cash lands. " 

...? 

Nodding, sat. 

"I'm afraid of him. I'dn't want him to do anything on my back. " 

This absorbing information about my nanny was cut off by Mrs. Sakakini abruptly points at John Quincy Adams: 

"Darryl Kipp, I think you could do a bit with YAH, but Mr." Sakakini only snuck in a grumpy way, turning to Tom. 

"I'd want to do a lot of work on Long Island if I could obtain this. All I ask is that, I should start. " 

"Ask Virginia," said Tom, bursting into a short shout of laughs as Mrs. Wilson sat in a tray. Virginia, won't you? 

"What?", shook. 

"You'll appoint Sakakini to your husband, so that you can do his study. His lips sat still for a instant, as if torn apart. "Pym at a gas pump '', or... " 

John Quincy Adams shook my hand and whistling in my mouth : '' Both cann't stand a man with whom.  " 

"Can't?" 

"Can't STAND. ", a look at Virginia and at Tom. "What I say is, why go on living with a woman if you can't stand it? If I was him I'd go and marry right away. " 

"Wilson's also not?" 

Unsurprisingly, a solution was found to this. It was from Virginia who had a hiccup and it was brutal and oblivious to. 

John Quincy Adams said triumphantly : "You sass?" Again, slacks. "It's his husband who is actually dividing him apart. It's a Catholic, and don't think in divorcing " 

Daisy was not a Catholic and I was tawny dang. 

"Also, '' said John Quincy Adams : . ; -... a whirlwind blows! " 

"It's a bit stout to go to Transvaal. " 

"Oh, do you think Transvaal is a good thing?" "I just got back from MOFA. " 

"Rally. " 

"Just last month. I sat with a girl. " 

"Stay long?" 

"No, just go to MOFA and back! By way of Gulf,  In two days, if you got gypsyd out of it all, you had a thousand dollars to start. I had an awful trip back, I can say. God, how I hath that town!" 

For a short instant,'s mid-day sky bluffs in front of us as if it was horn-shrouding - that is shrill.' Sakakini's back to my room. 

"I almost also did a tad brashly. " "I almost got a small kryptonian, who'd had my back for months.... I sat down to know that I was him. All of us said to 'Jay, that man's way down to you!' But if I hadn't known Darryl Kipp, I'd of got him. " 

"No, but wait," said Virginia Wilson, nodding up and down. "You didn't marry him... " 

"I know I didn't. " 

"I marry him," said Virginia ambiguously. "And that's a symbiosis of your & my. " 

"Why did you, Virginia?", John Quincy Adams sprang up. "Nobody has slain you to. " 

Virginia is thought : 

"I admonish him as I thought that'; , finally said. "I thought a bit about fauna and fauna, but it was not fit to lick my foot. " 

"You a bit crazy about him," said John Quincy Adams. 

"Crazy about him!" Virginia sprang into numb. "Who said I was crazy about him? I wasn't crazy a bit about that man as much as I am about it. " 

I snuck up, and all of you apologisingly flinch. I try to show that I had in my past no part. 

"I was only CRAZY if I was a husband. I sat right away knowing that I had a wrong. In a day, in which I was out of his suit '' ;. 'Oh, is that your suit?' I said 'This is my first to know about it But I did it to him, and I lay down and sat down to bluff a band all day. ' " 

"It ought to go away from him," said John Quincy Adams. "It's a living thing, that '. And Tom is's first sassy hat. " 

Now, a symphony of whisky--a third-in-command - was in constant supply by all of us, with John Quincy Adams, who "just as good on nothing at all..." Tom rang for janitor and snuck him out to a happy sandwich, which was an all-in - A! I was going to go out and walk through soft twilight toward a park, but if I sat down in my chair for too long I got caught up in an angry rant. But high up in this city, our chain of black windows must appoint its part of human snooping to casual watch in dark straits, and I was him too, looking up and asking : I was within and without, amidst and suffocating - both — drooling and dissuading by an incomparably vast array of living. 

Virginia sat down to my chair, and a whirlwind burst my warm air. My story dripping with Tom ; 

It was on two small rows facing backwards, which is always last on train. '' I was going to North and South to visit my sibling, and to stay night. I had on a tan suit and oxford boots, and I couldn't hold my hands off him - but I always had to try to look at it as if I was looking at his frock. On our way to station, I was sat with him and his black shirt-front against my arm - and so I told him I'd call a cop, but if I lividly. I was so happy that if I got into a taxi with him, I didn't hardly know that I wasn t going to 'a subway train. All I was thinking about was, 'You can't... . '' 

 Ms. Sakakini and a room rang full of artificial laughs. 

"My lord, I'm going to show you this gown as soon as I finish it. Tomorrow I'll buy a third. I'm going to do a list of all things that I must buy. A shaman and a wand and collar for your dog, and an ash-trays that touch springs. And for Mom's tomb you'll find an all-south - yawn with black silk bows I got to jot down a list so I won't think about all things I had to do. " 

It was 9 o'clock--as soon as I saw my watch and found it was 10. Mr. Sakakini was snorting on a chair with his fists in his lap, as if it was an action photo. Taking out my handknip, I swab a small spot of dry lint that I had worry about all day from his skin. 

Small dog was sitting on a chair looking with blinds and groaning faintly. In fact, a lot of scouts and liars lost, found, and found. Tom Buchanan and Mrs. Wilson stood in acclaim discussing with impassion if Mrs. Wilson had any right to say Daisy's. 

"Daisy! Daisy! ", Mrs. Wilson "I'll say it if I want! Daisy! Dai----" 

Tom Buchanan, making a short flinty motion, splints his nostrils with his hand. 

Apoi, bloody tusks scurrying on bathroom floor, and woman's shouts and a long blown wail of pain hung high. Mr. Sakakini awak, from his dozing, and sat down in drowsy towards his door. At half-way, as if scolding and consoling abounds in his husband and John Quincy Adams, who had flung in and out amongst cramming chairs with aids, and clinging flushly on his couch and trying to dissappoint an old copy of "Town Tackling" '' ;  Mr. Sakakini swung out, turning and continuing on out door. I took my hat from a cairn. 

"Coming to lunch a day, '' said him. During our groaning : 

"Which?" 

"Anything. " 

"Turn off your hands," snuck up a lift boy. - 

"I ask for your pardon," said Mr. Sakakini with dignity, "I didn't know I was touching it. " 

"All right," I said, "I'll gladly. " 

I was standing by his cot and sitting with a big portfolio in his hands, clad in shorts. 

, '' ;. Lingoism. Old Solmort. Brook'n - . " 

I was lying half-assailant in a cold floor of PA Station, staring at morning's "Tribunal" and waiting for four o'clock train. 

Chap. 3 

Through all night - nights, music was coming out of my front yard. In his bluish lands, kings and girls swung in and out as moths among twilight flint and lilac and stars. At high tidal sands of his raft, at his two motor-boats, I saw his visitors diving or taking a dip in his pool of sun. Kluckholn was dripping through foam cataracts at's horns On Fridays, his 1985 Smith was an omnibus, transporting party to and from city, from 9 in morning to long past midnight. His station wagon stumbling as if a brisk black bug to all trains And on Mondays, with mops and scrubbing - brooms and hobbish and lawn-shrubs all day'; d  h o r a g i n w u t l y. : 

From a fruiting man in North and South, on Fridays, 5 crocks of ox-and-limons got to his back door - on Mondays this samurai. In my family, I had a tin - machinist. In half an hour, if '' s small button was dangling by broom's thumb ;  

At a fortnight or two, an army of cooks slid down to Gatsby's giant pond with thousands of foot of canvas. On a smoky hors d' - o n ; t r. : In main hall was a bar with brass rail, and with gins and liquors and cordials so long forgot that most of his gin - and rum-drinking '' s was too young to know. 

By 7 o'clock, it is a solitary affair--no thin four-part affair, but ''a big pitful of viols and colossi and low and high drums. Now, a lot of sand and mud has brought in and is changing upstairs. Cars from North and South's carparks and halls - and salons in front of it...  gaudy with primary colors and hair dripping in odd ways and in shawls out of Gabon? Bar is in full swing and floating rounds of cocktails swarm through, until air is bursting with tumultuous humour and casual nihilation and introductions forgot on spot and arousal of flings of woman who did not know'; 

Lights giddy, as sand hurls away from sun and now a tad high is playing tonal cocktail music and opportunistic of sounds. Laughing is sluggish, bit by bit, with prodigality, thrown out at a happy word. For a sharp, joyous instant, groups shift swiftly, swoop with incoming arrivals and form--all of that is waning girls who cling to this and that among tasty and flinching and grow up with triumph. 

Almost a gypsy in tumbling opal snatchs out of his air, dumps it down to ward it off, and moving his hands as Frisco dancing on canvas - platform. A short hush, obligingly varying his rhythm for him, and a burst of humour as irrational information about Gilda Gray is going around from DARPA. " Party has sung. 

I think that on my first night at Gatsby' s, I was a ruckus of. It was not a party, but it was. You got into autos that took you out to Long Island, and a part of it sat at Gatsby's door. In a way, if you go to Gatsby's room, you will know that. Occasionally, without knowing Gatsby at all. ; a simplicity of spirit that was its own card of admission... 

I had actually had a invitation A robin's oxblood - uniform driving on my lawn that Saturday morning with a surprisingly formal notation from his boss -- said that if I would go to his "small party" that night, my honor would trump Gatsby. Until long ago, I had sat with him and had in mind to call, but a particular combination of conditions had it - Jay Gatsby's sign had not stood in his hand. 

I sat down on his lawn a tad ill-fittingly, clad in black flints, and roosting around among swirls and dusty droops of folks I didn't know--though I had found this and that on commuting trains. I was instantly struck by a sprinkling of young britons, all good-looking and all looking hungry and talking to solid and thriving Southns in low-sould. I was ad hoc : bonds or, or cars. At a minimum, it was agonizingly cognizant of this low-cost pound in proximity and was sworn that it had its own - if only for'; . 

As soon as I got to my host, I slunk off in such a wry way to find him ; but if I was to ask him for his location I would look at my two or third hosts in an astonishing way. I did so with so much disdain of his motions that I ran off to go inwards to 'Cocktail Bar & Grill' - that is all that could go on in this yard without looking obnoxious and uncomfort 

I was on my way to roar drunk from a total humiliation as Jordan Marvin, 1996, sat out of town and stood in front of it, looking backwards and looking down in disgust. 

I found it's important to attach or not, to a nay, if I should start to say cordial things to passing -! 

"Hallo!" I roar, advancing toward it. My vocal rang unnaturally loud across my yard. 

"I thought you might find a way to go to you, as I said. "I thought of you to -----" 

As if to hold my hand in my hands, as a promissory '' that i'd m's pity. And to two girls in twin-diamond gowns who sat at foot of stairs... 

"Hallo!", clung to a ringing. "Sorry you didn't win. " 

That was for a golf tour. In finals, it had lost to a woman who had sat on his back in. 

"You don't know who our family is," said a girl in pink. "But, that's what...? " 

"You'd taint your hair", Jordan said, and I sat down casually - but girls had movin' on a casual basis '' ; and if that was so.... With Jordan's slinty gold arm in my hand, I drank down and ran around. A tray of cocktails flotta twilight at us and sat down at a bar with two girls in lilac, and third man introducing us as Mr. Gilda. 

"Do you usually go to this party? ", Jordan shook a girl in front of him. ' 

"Last was that at which I saw you '', a girl said in an oblivious, confidant sound. That was it for you, Jay?". 

It was also for Jay. 

Jay said : "I want to go. " "I don't know what I do, so always a good day. '' As I was last in a chair, I torn off my gown and sat down with him to ask for my nom and location--in . In '' I got from Croir & Co. an old night gown in it! " 

"Did you hold it?" Jordan. 

"I did. Tonight I was going to put it on, but it was too big in my bust and had to go back. It was gas-bluish with lavish strands. Two thousand sixty-six dollars " 

"It's funny about a man who will do 'a thing as that, " sarcastically said that girl. "I don't want to do ANYTHING with ANYbody. " 

"Who don't?" I said. 

"Gatsby.  ----" 

Jordan and two girls sat confidantly in front of. 

"It was said that I thought that a man had slain. " 

A thrill flung through us all. Mr. Gildas sprang forward, acoustic. 

"I don't think it's so much THAT," Jay shook cautiously ; "it is a fact that, during World War II. - '' " 

In confirmation, a man nods. 

"I had that from a man who had all about him, who was growing up with him in Illinois,". '' 

"Oh, no, it couldn't ; it could not '' . - a girl who was in Southn army during war! As our cynicism swung back to it, with vigor. "You look at him occasionally if a man thinks nobody is looking to him. I'll say that a man slain. " 

. '', a tad numbing and drooling girl Jay shook. All of us swung around for Gatsby. It was a sign of his romantic spouting, that rumors about him flung out by all who found nothing that it was in this world to gloat. 

Now was a first lunch--as soon as midnight - and Jordan's invitation to join my own party, which sat around an obbligato. In addition to Jordan's scout, Jordan was a long-standing u.s. grad who was giving innudo to brutality and was obviously assuming that Jordan would soon uphold his oath. This party had not rambling, but a dignifying homogyny, and took on its own function of stout nobility of country--Plymouth - to Morocco and cautiously on guard against its sporadic gayity. 

"Last's go out", Jordan sprang to mind a half hour. "This is much too poppy for my. " 

I got up and said that I was going to find a host - I hadn 't known him, and it was causing my mind to squint. In a cynical, languid way, I said : " 

It was busy at a bar, if not Gatsby. From top of stairs, a woman couldn't find him. And it was not on tv? On a whim, on an important-looking door. Upon walking in to high Gothic library, which was clad with carvings of British oak, and probably transporting it all out of ruins  

A stout, m-old man with gigantic owl - hats was sitting a bit drunk on an armchair, staring with ill-contrast at books. As if to go in, Jordan rood wildly around and sat on his foot. 

"What do you think?", a snarling asks. 

"About what?" 

His hand swung towards book stalls. ' 

"About that. As a point of fact, you should not worry about. I appoint  '' " 

"Books?" 

Nodding, I said. 

"Absolutly a'sassy' - and all : I thought that a good sturdy cardboard would work. In fact, it's a fact that. Navajos show you a saga. " 

Taking our skunk for a fact, rushing to our books ; and with Vol. 1 of "Stoddard talks. '' " 

"Say!", a triumphant cry. It is a bona fiddly print - work. It fools. This guy is a normal Alabama - man It's a triumph. What thorough, what racial accuracy!! Won't stop too--didn t cut down '' But what do you want? What do ya want?" 

It snatch a book from my hand and quickly mumbling that if 'a brick was thrown out, all library was going to collaps. 

"Who brought you?", appoints him "Or did you just go? Most of us brought. " 

Jordan sat at him adroitly, smilingly, without asking. 

"I was brought by a woman, Kam-ap," said. "Mrs. Claud Kam-ap Do you know it? Last night, I was chatting with it. I'm drunk for about a month now and thought it might sob my spirit to sit in my library " 

"Has it?" 

"A bit, I think. I can't say. I'm only an hour away from you. Did I say about books? Hurghada" 

"You told us. " 

With him, I shook our hands with him and ran back out. 

Now a dancing on canvas was going on in my yard, old guys pushing young girls backwards in gnarly, tortuously, fashionably and stifling '' ; and lots of solo girls dancing individualistically or loosing out of control of banjo or traps. - By midnight, hilarity had sprang up. A famous tango had sung in Italian and a notorious contralto had sang in jazz, and amongst thousands was doing "Stunts" all around, as happy vacuous bourbons of laugh roosting towards . A pair of "twins" on show--who sat in a baby - act in color -- did in gowns, and mastication was drank in glass that was big. A soaring moon was rising, and floating in Sound was a triangular ring of tinny limbs, clinging to stiff, tiny drips of Yugoslavia. 

I was still with Jordan Marvin in 1996. At a bar, I was sitting with an old man of about my twilight yawn and an rowdy small girl who clung to uncontrollably wailing upon any slight provocation Now I was a happy man. I had two taffy bowls of bubbly, and my mind had swung into a signifikant, ominous and profound. 

At a lull in my company, I sat down and stood back. 

"Your skin is familiar," shook him kindly. "Wast you in Doqqi during war?" 

"Why? I was in Ninth Battalion - Gun. " 

"I was in any contracting party until about 18 : I know I'd had a look on you. " 

For a bit, talking about'sooty', sluggish, and gloomy small towns in China! Obviously, in this vicinity. Having just bought a hydroplaning and was going to try it out in morning's saga? 

"Want to go with my old sport? Just along sand. " 

"What a day?" 

"Any day that suits you. " 

It was on my tip of my mouth to ask him if Jordan sat around, smiling. 

"Has a gay '' now? 

"Much '' ;  I sat back again to turn my mind back to my familiar. "This is an unusual party for my. I hadn't a thought about this host. I'm a man ----, I had my hand swung at an indistinguishably tawny. "And this man Gatsby with an invitation droolds on his cab. " 

For a whirlwind, I sat with him as if I did not know. 

"I'm Gatsby," shook him numb. 

"What!" I said "Oh, I ask your pardon. " 

"I thought you know, old sport I'm afraid I’m not a good host. " 

., '' Laught - Much... ; It was a rarity of that grin that you may find four or cincintia of in it. It facing--or schizally facing - for an instant, with an insidious bias in your favor. It just saw you so far as you wan't to know, thought in you as if you would want a'spirit of you in your own... and told you that it had. At that point it vanish - and I was looking at an aristocratic young rough-collar, who had just missing an hour or two of formality '' I'd got a strong opinion about him picking his words with utmost vigor. 

Almost at that point Mr. Gatsby, with information that Chicago was calling him on a whim. ; With a small bow, sat him out ; in turn.  

"If you want anything just ask for it, old sport," appoints him. "Sorry, I m sorry '' I will join you. " 

I sat in Jordan as soon as I saw him, announcing to him that I was not going to worry about it. I had thought that Mr Gatsby would in his mid-sixtynth a flora and lustrous man 

"Who is? ", I said. "Do you know?" 

"It's just a man known as Gatsby " 

"Who is from him, I say? And what do? 

"Now you'll start on this topic, " shook it with a wan grin. "Truth told a man of Oxford that. " 

A dim background was to start to sprinkling around him, but it fading away at his following. 

"I don't think it. " 

"Why not?" 

"I don't know," admonishing, " I just don t think that's why." " 

A bit of a snarling tidbit, in its tonality, brought back to my mind's "I think that l  o r i m. d ; n h : I would acquit Gatsby's information that sprang from swamps of Louisiana, or from down on Plymouth - Front of North and South. That was commu- But young guys didn't--at a minimum in my provincial obscurity, I thought - coolly drift out of whack and buy an island on Long Island Sound 

"Anyhow, a big party is giving him," said Jordan, with an urban disdain for construction. - "And I do a big party. So intima! At small party, privacy is not a thing. " 

A bass drum boom rang out, and a vocal ringing octavo rung out loud. - 

"Lady and Mr.  ;'s -, cry. "At Mr. Gatsby, I will play for you Mr Vladimir Tostoff's last work which attract so much focus at WPC in May, 2014. If you know what was a big snafu, you will know. With a jovial adoration, . '' smirks and adds : -! ;... 

"It is known as 'Vladimir Tostoff's Jazz History of World,' ”. '' 

Mr. Tostoff's composition sat idly away, for just as it was going on a whirlwind of oblivion. Just as Gatsby was waking up in front of him, I stood with approving grins and stood on his stairways ; His tan skin was drawn on his facial skin and his short hair sat as if it was cut all day. I could not find anything sinful about him. I thought if his fact of not drinking scuttling him off from his visitors, for it schism for him to acquaint with hilarity as. As soon as "Jazz History of World" was out, girls swooning in a puppyish, convivial way backwards into man's arms, so in groups knowing that an individual would stop its falls - but nobody 'd back on Gatsby andn't touch bob gat and no sing-alongs with gat b'  ;. 

"I ask for your pardon. " 

Gatsby's buttock stood amidst us. 

 Miss Marvin 1996? '', admonishing him. "I ask for your pardon, but Mr Gatsby would want to talk to you. " 

"With you?", squawks in shock. 

"No, madam. " 

It got up slowly, raising my brows in astonishing to mr. and sat down to look at liars & ghouls and to follow tawny brooms into my room ; I sprang to mind that, as with all sports clothing - it was a jaunty look about it as if it had first taught to walk on crisp mornings on golf. 

I was solo and it was about two. For a long, confusing and intriguing sound had sprung from an long, many-window room that hung on top of our balcony. Jonathan Taylor, who was now in a cynical discussion with two chorus girls and who implods to join him, I sat in my room 

It was a big room full of. A girl in pink was playing piano and a tall, bald young lady from famous chorus sat, singing. It had drunk a quantity of bubbly and had sat irrationally, arguing that all was sad - not only singing, but crying too. Occasionally, if a halt was occurring in song.  - '' Filling it with gasping sobs? Thankfully, though - not wildly ; if a pair of brows sprang into contact with it's thickly tawny lash, it took an inky color and ran in slow black ruits for most of its way. A humorous proposal was that, sung 'til taints ; . ] On a whimsy - it was thrown up — hands!? 

"It had a fight with him who said's husband is,'' said an aspiring girl at my arm. 

I look around. Most of, if not all, of today's woman had fights with said husbands. Sogar Jordan's party, which was a four-man - group from Plymouth — was split by discord! A man was talking to a young actor with curious vigor, and if his husband had sat down to laugh in dignifying and unflinching way at this situation - at varying points '' ; at his wits's urging. ... 

It was not only a man's tyranny to go back to his country. At this point, it was occupying by two highly indignant and admonishably drunk saviours. In slightly slouchy vocals, a woman was sympathizing with him. 

"If a man finds that I'm having good fun, it wants to go back. " 

"Niddly, I'd had nothing so opportunistic in my day. ' " 

"Stay always first to go. " 

"So sind wir. " 

"It's almost last tonight," a man snobbly said. "A half an hour ago, a half-hour's... " 

In fact, in a short fight - mingling of husbands that such malfamiliarity was ill-convincing '' ; s. & b : 

As I sat in my hat in hall, door of library - and Jordan Marvin in 1996 and Gatsby –. It was a last word to him, but in his way sighing abruptly into formality as many of his companions approach him to say hi. 

Jordan's party was calling from a porch irrationally, but shook hands for. '' 

"I just sat down and said, '' I'll just say it... " "How long was it? " 

"Why, about an hour. " 

"It was--simply amazing," abstractly said. "But I sworn I wouldn't say it and I am tantalizing you. " I yawn kindly in my mouth. ' "I kindly ask that if you can comm, and I. Call book  : Loughlin My aunt ", scurrying off as if talking--his brown hand waving a jaunty grin whirlwind. '' 

 I was a liar '' that on my first visit, I had so tardily sat down with Gatsby's last visitors. I clung to him I want to say that I'd scoutd for him at about 9:30 a.m., and to thank him for not having known him in . 

"Don't say it," jokingly told him. Don't think about it, old sport. "Familiarity did not hold as much familiarity as my hand, which rassuringly swung. "And don't forgot, tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock's going to go up in a hydroplan. " 

Lastly, backwards to his thigh : 

"Indiana wants you on your call, sir. " 

"All right, in a min. I'll just say '' ;  Good night. " 

"Good night. " 

"Good night. ", shook him--and gradually a gratifying symbolism was found in knowing that it was among last to go, as if it had always sought it out. "Good night, old sport. Good night! " 

But as I sat down, I saw that's not all - night was. Fifty foot away from door, a tumultuous and sprightly spot of lights lit. In a ditch, facing right up, but shorn of an oar,  hors d'tat '' - rood. ;n't two mins old : A sharp jut of a wall, which was now attracting oblivion from half an hour of curious chauffors.  As if a harsh discordant roar was ringing from backwards, but as it had sat on its way to blockading road's roads - it was still . 

A man in a long dusk had dismount from his car and now stood in mid-way, looking in an uncomfortably funny way from car to rim and from tarp to watchrs. 

"Say!", a sarcastically - told him "It sunk in a ditch. " 

To him, it was infinitum astonishing - and I ad iota first that's unusual in its quality and tho'n't that man--it was Gatsby  s library. 

How did it go? 

, '' a rabbi shook his hands. 

"I know nothing about motors, I know it's nothing. " 

"But how did it go? Did you run into a wall?" 

"Don't ask," said Polonia, washing his hands of all. "I know a lot about driving - I know nothing at all. It was, and that's all I know. " 

"But if you'd ot try driving at night, you shouldn t. " 

"But I wasn't trying," admonishingly said, "I was not trying at all... " 

An awry hush flung on bystands. 

"Do you want to commit supplication?" 

"You'd think it was just a car! A bad car and NOT TRYing!" 

"You don't know," said criminal. "I wasn't driving. In this car, a man is. " 

In a long-lasting "Ah-hh!", shock that swung out of this  coup d'état '' ; -. It was now a crowd--involuntarily - back, and '' oblivion was spouting outwards ; . Almost gradually, a small dangling individual swung out of it, slowly pawing with an untidy dancing foot out to ground. 

Blind by glaring of horns, and swaying by continuous groaning of it ; apparition stood in a twilight flint. '' 

"Wha's?", sat calmly. "Did a gas run out?" 

"Look!" 

Half a dildo pointing at his amputator's horn - i sat at it, looking up, as if it was falling from sky.  

"It sunk off," a man said. 

 - '', a nod. 

"At first, I didn't know that's why. " 

A halt Now, taking a long snort and straddling his torso, il rabidly said: ' 

"Was 'n't that a gas station?" 

At most a handful of guys, many of whom was much ill than him, told him that rim and car had no physical bond. 

"Back out," a jolt said. "Put it in back : " 

"But that's off!" 

. '' 

"No harm in trying," ad said. 

Its horns had a climax, and I swung away and cut across lawn toward my own. I swung back a bit. A waft of a moon was shining on Gatsby's door, making it as good as it was at night and surviving his still glow. Now a suffocating lack of light was to flow from windows and grand doors, bringing in with total isolation that of host who stood on porch, his hand up in formal faring -. 

Taking my writings so far, I find that I am a bit of an affliction that my actions of 3 nights sat on. On contrary, in a tumultuous August -'s symphony... ; i was only casually thrown into it and, until much . 

Most of my work. In a twilight morning, my shadow swung outwards as i ran down to ARM's muddy chasms of low north and south. I known all of us with a first -'stuff', and with young bond-salings. I sat in dark – dingy & giddish  pubs with small pig wursts and potato mash and tacos I had a short affair with, who was living in Namibia and was working in accounting - . '' ; s :? ), but as soon as I was going on vacation in July... I blown it! 

I usually took a lunch at AT & T. -- for a sigh of horror it was my day's most gloomy thing -- and so I ran upstairs to my library and, for an arduous hour, trawld through stocks and bonds It was usually a small group of rioting gangs around, but hardly any scouts got in to work so it was good. If it was a lullaby, I snuck down Madison & past old UDF and up Thirty-third St. to PA Station. 

I found North and South a racy, sassy look of it at night, and satisfaction that constant whirling of man and woman and machinations brings to my numb. I would walk up Fifth and pick out romantic woman from a crowd and imagining that I was going to join in with, and nobody would know or applaud. In my mind, I would occasionally follow a man to his flats on sloughs of hid-out roads. Occasionally';  : - ---... & / or? At a solitary twilight in London, I drank occasionally of haunting - and it flinching--poor young assistants who stood in front of windows waiting until it was 't ok to go out for an oblivious dining-room-young staff. 

At 8 o'clock, as Oubangui's dark corridors with throbbing taxi cabs sank in my body a bit. Forms sat in taxis as if waiting, and vocals sang ; and a laugh was from uncomfortably funny quips and unintuivably lit cigars around. Imagining that I was also hurrying toward gay tyranny and sharing my intimation, I wish you a good day. 

For a bit I lost sight of Jordan Marvin in 1996, and in mid-July I found again. At first, I was happy to go with a golf champion. All of's was familiar with it   It was a '' I wasn't actually in it, but a kind of soft curiosity. It was a haughty grin, that sat in front of that world--most ''assaults' - obfuscationn't actually hiding anything at all -- and I found out what it was that day. In Warwick, a woman who was out on an impromptu party - in rain with top down-- and livid about it -- and I forgot about that story that had snuck into my mind that night at Daisy's At his first big golf tour, a row that almost got to print--a supposition that it was moving out of an ill-fitting position in half-finals. Initially, a scandal's proportions swung out ; now. A caddy withdrawn his claim, and only a solitary wittain admits that if i was wrong ; In my mind, both of which had a continuous history. 

Jordan Marvin 1996 instinctually avoids smart, snobby guys, and now I saw that this was a symptom of it - as if's had to worry about it on an aircraft in which any discord of any kind would... It was incurably unjust. It wasn't in a position to withstand's plight, and if this inclination was any indication, I would imply that it was starting to work in subtitutions as young as to maintain that cool, insouciant grin that was turning inwards and still to satisfy its hard, jaunty body 

It did nothing to my. Dishonor in a woman isn't that thing that you always blaming - I was casually sorry, and I forgot. It was on that party that a curious discussion was had about driving cars. It was going to start, as if a woman was so far away from working so that our thoracic fan flung on man's coat. 

"You'd a rotting tycoon," I said. "You oughtn't, at all. '' -  ; or you ought : " 

"I am cautious. " 

"No, you'n't. " 

"It's a good thing, and it is. " 

"What's that got to do with it?" 

"I'll stay out of my way," insists. "It took two to a crash" " 

"Supposing that you had just as much of a naughty as you? " 

"I'm hoping I won't do that again," said. "I'm a liar,  " That's why I want you. " 

Its gray, sun-torn brows sat straight in front of us, but in a conscious shift of our kinships I thought that I lovin ''. But I am slow-thinking and full of stipulations that act as a constraint on my wants, and I know that first I had to go out of that tusk firmly. I'd scribbling and jokingly omitting a tad bit of writing and signing :  Nick '' and all I could think of was how, as that particular girl was playing ninjas, on top of his brows an affliction. Thankfully, a vagabond was found that had to tactfully splint off if I was to find my way. 

Almost all of us think of a cardinal virtuosity, and this is mys : I am oh my. I '; m & r? 

Chap. 4 

On Sunday morning, as church horns rang in slums along a cliff, world and its misty back to Gatsby's Haus and grindily on his lawn. 

"It's a bootloop," said young lady, swiping around his cocktails and his florals "At a point, '' d  ta k o n u r s. ; i had found out that c & b : I snab a rosé, and pour my last drop in that crystal glass. " 

On a tidbit, I criss-cross d'oath's slats of an obituary. It is now an old clock, dwindling at its folds, and pointing to "This clock in action 5 July 1922 : But I can still look at gritty noms, and if you do, you'll gain a b. g r ; t i  n o u - y': 

From Plymouth, a Darryl Kipp - Grampas'; s. d. and an ox : Ross, whom I know at Kosciuszko and Doctor Nas who was drowning in Husainiyah last month! And Hornbumps and John Judis and a full clan, Blackbuck, who always sat in an octavo and was thrown up as goats at who vs. And Ismays and Ruth S. Cavan (or Rosa and Mr. Murray's husband) and Taylor, who's say had cotton-wound hair on a chilly morning for no fad of any. 

Kitkahahki was from Plymouth, as I jot it down. Only in John Stuart Mill, and had a fight with an ox - bum 'n' ; dn. From far afar on Island, kings and o. R P. Schra s and Black of North Africa and Fishguards & Macy Cpl was in that shack for 3 days, so drunk that Mrs.'s was out on a stray road Wynton Marsalis's car ran his right hand. Mary also and Saint Thomas Aquinas, who was a good sixty-six, and Brooks and hamming and Mona Abaza's tobacco import and mona abazas girls. 

From Morocco, pols and muck and Colvin and Scotsman and Gulick and Farouq Hosni and Bank and Lynyrd and Grinch and Rambo (Son) and Arthur McCarty - all in a way with films... And Catlips and, and Rosa Parks'- Brutus of that Muldoon who strang to his. Da Fontano was promoting, and Carrington and Isaiah (Rot-Gut ) KMT and Poststructuralists and National--It was for a gambling - and as kMT swam into's yard. It was so that war would flinch and profitably if it had to go on! 

A man, a man known as Collins, was out of town for so many and so long that '' ;  - I doubt if? Of thailand, Harry and Hank and Polly Hill and Raymond and Francis Bull Also from North and South, was Carcassians and Backhyssons and Corrigans and Krajina and Scullys and Sharia Ibn Abraha and Chris Wall and young Quinns, who now drank by jumping in front of a subway train in. 

Jo Ann Robinson always sat with four girls. In physical form, a man or woman wasn 't always as similar as it was - but so similar was that it almost always sprang up. I forgot to pick - Mitchy, I think, or Consula or Gloria or Judy or Juni ; and  '' snobbishly : oh!?.... And haughty — – nay, if you want to call your cousins a prickly or cynical ­ liars 

In addition to all of this, I can say that Mozart and Omar ) girls and young Macmillan who had his nast shot off in war and Mr. Young and Miss Haag, his fianca, and Ardita Fitz-Farrars and Mr. Hannah Adams, n11, and Miss Claudia Hip with a man who was said to's lord of things ; and if I had known it... . 

All of this was coming to Gatsby's shack in August. 

At 9 o'clock in July, Gatsby's stunning car slid up a rocky road to my door and clung out from its trio of horns. It was his first call on my part, though I had flown to two of his groups in his hydroplan and, at his urging's sand -. 

"Good morning, old sport. Today you and I had lunch with you, and i thought of riding up. " 

It was balancing on his car dashboard with that unusually Southn mobility that, in my opinion, occurs with a lack of lifting work or rigid sitting in youth and, to add insult to injury, with our numbing, sporadic sports. This quality was constantly bridging his punctilious way in form of ruckus. It was always a tapping foot or an uncomfortably snarling hand, but always still. 

I saw him looking admirably at his car. 

"It's good, isn't it, old sport. " I sprang off to show him a good look. Hast dunn't y'all sat in it? 

I'd saw it. All had sat it. It was a rich crimson color, bright with nicotin, drooping with triumphant IBM and bowls and tool-kits in its monstrous longing and stout with labyrinths of windows that clung to. Sitting in a sort of sandbox, backwards of glass, in an opal - nidal – cladding  /. 

I had probably sat with him about a half-diamond in last month and found, to my dismay, that. So my first thought, that it was a man of an unknown implication had gradually fading away and had simply sat as occupant of '' . 

And so, that dizzying trip. Until Gatsby sat down in his palazzo in Morocco, wailing on his carnation suit '' ;  a : 

"Look at this, old sport," surprisingly, shook. "What is your opinion of you, anyhow?" 

A bit sluggish, i apologising to all of you for avoiding all that is worthy of. 

"I'm going to say you a bit about what is going on in my's,'' shook him. "I don't want you to gain a wrong notion of my story from all that you know. " 

So, a man was cognizant of spooky accusations that fascinat his halls. 

"I'll show you God's truth. His right hand abruptly ordain God to stand by. "I am now a son of '' styrofoam's rich - all of us. I was brought up in South, but was taught in Oxford ; all my aristocracy has had its roots in that. It is a family tradition. " 

I saw him looking outwards--and I know why Jordan Marvin had thought 1996 was lying. , '' -. ; ) –... And with this doubt his saga was torn apart, and if it wasn't at all a bit dark? 

"What part of mid-wold?" I casually said. '' 

San Francisco. " 

"I saw " 

"My family all slain and I got a lot of cash. " 

His symphony was ominous, as if to haunt him was still a thought of that bruising loss of clan. For a short instant, I thought that I was pulling my foot, but if I look at him I think I'm not. 

"As a young rajah, I sat in all capitals of Transvaal--Paris, Goa, Britain - accumulating gold, mainly ruby. I was hunting big horn, painting small things only for my own, and trying not to think of anything that was so sad that I had long ago '' " 

With an aplomb, I sat down to calm down my idylls. Just as a turban dripping sawdust sprang out at all pylons, it was worn so untidy that it did not bring out any photo. 

"So, war, old sport. It was a big comfort, and I fought hard to dash, but I was to carry on with an adoration.... I took on a commission as First Lt. Comm. In Pratt, I took two machinations so far forward that a half - mln gap was obstructing our infantry. Two days and two nights, a thousand and thirty-man army with 16 liars - guns ; and as soon as infantry finally sprang up, it was found that insignias of 3 Nazi divisions stood amongst thousands and drools I was a major and all n7 - govt.'s hats--It was Lapland, small Laplad down on Adriatic Town!" 

Lapland, with his grin. :  Lapland's smoky grin acompagnons la tumultuous history, and sympathizing with l'assassination of. It fully acquaints Lapland with its chain of national situations, which had brought this honour from Lapond's warm nitty-gritty My indignation was now sunk in fascination, it was as if I was skimming through a jiffy. 

In his pouch, a splint in my palm was thrown into my hand. 

"That's Lapland '. " 

To my astonishing, this thing had an original look. 

_Carrizosa Umaa_ ran a circular story, Lapland, Raymond 1993 

"Turn it. " 

_Major Jay Gatsby_, I said : '' For Valour  

"I always carry this thing. A smoky of Oxford days. It was in Trinity Quad - a man on my right is now Lord of Santa Claus. " 

It was a photograph of half djs in blazons loafing in an archway through which swarms of pillars. Gatsby was looking a bit, not much, young--with an bat in his hand. 

It was all truth. I saw flaming skins of tigris in his Palais on Grand Canal, and saw him with his crimson-dark sloughings, a churn of ruby ; 

"I'm going to ask a big thing of you today," said him, with satisfaction. "So I thought that you ought to know what I do." I didn't want you to think I was just a 'nobody' You know, I usually find a way of avoiding my surroundings if I drift wildly around this and that. I am trying to savor this sad thing that I had to do... ", shook him. " "You'll know about it today. " 

"At lunch?" 

"No, this morning I found out that you took Miss Marvin 1996 to tai. " 

"Do you say that you'd fall for Miss Marvin 1996?" 

"No, old sport, I'm not. But Miss Marvin 1996 has kindly appoints to talk to you about this. " 

I had not a hint of what "this was", but I was snooty. I had not told Jordan to drink to discuss Mr. Jay Gatsby I was adamant that if it was anything fantastic, I wouldn't stray far from his lawn. ... 

It wouldn't say a word. His right to him wilt a lot as our city nigh. Port Kam-ap was a sighting of sand-brick - clad ships, and ran along an idyll with dark, uninspiring saloons of two-thirds rusty. On both of us, a trough of ash sprang out and I had an inkling of Mrs. Wilson straining with panting vitality at a pump as I sat by. 

With flints sprang as wings through half Astoria--only half, for as I twiddling among pillars of a motorcycling '' oh-so-famous jug-jag - SPAT! ; and an frantic policing man roost. 

"All right, old sport", Gatsby. Slow down. Taking a black card from his handbag, shook it in front of him. 

"Right y'all, you  appoint '' stumbling his cap. "Know you, Mr. Gatsby "I'm sorry! 

"What was that?" I ask. "Is Oxford a pictogram?" 

"I was a good comisar, and if I don 't do it, I'll go to Christmas - Cards. " 

. '', with sunlight forming a constant smoky glow upon moving cars ; with city rising up across bluffs and sugar lumps all built out of non-olfactory cash : From Oldhamboro's cliffs is a city that is always first-hand, in its first wild proclamation of all mysticism and flora & fauna in world. 

A man passing us in a hush with blooms, follows by two wagons with drawn blinds and by joyfully snoozing chariots for fam . , '' s. ; and I was glad that Gatsby's glorious car was a part of his sommorous holiday! As Narcissus' Island swung by a limo, drivning by an ivy - octopus ; in which stood 3 modish Macroland, two bucks & 1 girl. I laugh aloud, as in haughty rivalry's yolks roll towards us. 

"Anything can occur now that I'm slid, but nothing at all...." " 

Sogar Gatsby could occur, without any particular doubt. 

Roaring noon In a fawny Forty-Sixty - St. John's stomping ground, I saw Gatsby for lunch. Blinking away from a bright light of my surroundings, I took him out of his room obscuringly. I was talking to an old man 

"Mr. Carraway this is my ami. Japan. " 

A small, flat-nasty jiw shook up his big chin and i saw two small growths of hair luxuriating in both nostril. In a half-dark room, I found his tiny brows. 

"-so I took a look at him--" said Mr. Japan, shaking my hand with ardour, "What do you think I did?" 

I snuck a bit kindly : "What?" 

But a tad obviously did not ward off my hand, for sat down with my mouth and Gatsby. 

"I paid Katspaugh and I said to him, 'All right.  Don't pay him anything until his mouth shuts : 'I shut it.  " 

Gatsby took an arm of all of us and swung forwards in front of Mr. ; Japan swallows a slur that was starting him and slips into somnambulation. 

"Highballs?", a snort - asks? 

"This is a good dining room," said Mr. Japan looking at nymphs on a top. "But I want to go down a bit ''. " 

"No, Highballs," said Gatsby, and finally to Mr Japan: "It's too hot. " 

"Hot and small--no," said Mr. Japan, but full of... " 

"What is that?" I sat down. 

"An old city. 

Mr. Japan gloomily. "Filt with slain and vanishing.... Fillty now with familiars, now for a ; I can't go back so long as I am living in 1942a. It was six of us at, and Rosy had sat and drunk a lot all night. As it was almost morning, a waiting man got up to him and said : ''.  'All right,' says Rosy and starts to climb and I pull him down in his chair. 

'' Lads, don't you want to go into this room. '' 

It was four in a morning, and if our blinds hadn t rung ; '' " 

"Did a man go?", i snort. 

"Surprisingly," -- Mr. Japan's nasty snout flung indignantly at '' - . ; a turn around and said :, Don't allow that waiting man to rip away my mug! ]... thnx for that! " 

"Four of '' ; , I said, ". 

"Fif with Grampa. His nostrils swung in a curious way to I. "I know you'd look for a company. " 

It was startling to look at this juxtaposition. Gatsby appoints for us : 

"Oh, no," admonishing him, "this isn't man!" 

"No?" Japan was disappointing. 

"This is just a buddy I told you that a lot of us would talk about this. " 

"I ask for your pardon," said Mr. Japan, "I had a wrong man. " 

A sassy hash, and Mr. Japan, ignoring its sassyriac mood of old métropolitan, was consuming with fury. His brows, in turn, roosting slowly all around a room--by turning his arc - to look up to all of it. I think that if a short look had snuck up on our own couch, apart from my. 

"Look, old sport," said Gatsby, looking toward a stout grin. "I'm afraid I had you angry in my car this morning... " 

It was again smiling, but I hold out against it. 

I said, "I don't know if i'm a mystic,". "And I don't know why you will not go out to say what you want. Why has it all got to pass through Miss Marvin 1996?" 

"Oh, it's nothing 'n't, is it? ", I told him. "Miss Marvin 1996 is a good sportswoman, you know, and it wouldn't do anything that was not right. " 

Brutally, a look at his watch sprang up and I ran away with Mr. Japan at a tiara. 

"It has to call," said Mr. Japan, following him with his brows. "Finish man, isn't that? A good man to look at and a good guy. " 

"No. " 

"It is an Oggsford man. " 

"Oh!" 

"His go to Radio in U. S. You know radio?" 

"I'd known of it. " 

It is a world-famous school. " 

"Hast you known Gatsby for long? ", I said. 

"Put it a pity if it was ''. " "I did not want to miss his familiarity until I was in war.... But I know that I had found a man of good grazing, as I sat an hour with him. I said to my own: 'It's that kind of man you'd want to bring with you to your mom and your sibling.  '' - . "I saw you look at my cuff buttons. " 

I hadn't had a look at it, but I did now. Its composition was oddly familiar with ivory - parts. 

"Finths of human molars", I told. 

I sat down and said, "Oh! " "That's a surprisingly intriguing thing. " 

"Yah,  ", a man swung his shirts up. "Yah, Gatsby is a bit cautious about girls. Until now, it would not look so much at a woman as if it was his. " 

As soon as Mr. sat down, Mr. Japan drank his café with a jig and got to his foot. 

"I had my lunch," said him, "and I'm going to run from you two young guys if I don't stay in touch. " 

"Don't hurry, Jr. ", said Gatsby. Mr. Japan shook his hand in a sort of bluff. 

"You'd say that you ain't too politic, but I'm part of an oath ''.  " "You sit and talk about your sports and your young lady and ----", with an imaginary noun from his hand : "As I am fifty, and I won't put anything on you. " 

As a shook his hands and twiddling away, his tragic nasty was shaking. I admonish if I had said anything to him. 

Gatsby said : '' Occasionally, a lot of his sassy. "This is a day of his sassy. It's a bit of an actor around North and South--a slum of Broadway. " 

"Who is anyhow -- an actor?" 

"No. " 

"A doctor?". 

"Jr. No, it's not Japan. Gatsby sat still and said coolly : "It's that man who appoints in 1919 '' " 

"Fixing World's? '', I said. 

I was stumbling around with my thought. I thought of that in 1919, but if I had thought about it at all, I would think of it as a thing that simply HAPPONS - . '' It has not struck my mind that a man could start to play with faith of fifty million - with solitary vigor of an burglar who blows up an. 

"How did a man do that?" I sat down to ask's. 

"I just saw that opportunity " 

"Why isn't it in jail?" 

"You can't buy him, old sport. It's a smart man. " 

I instigation was to pay stub. As my shift was brought to Tom Buchanan, I caught sight of him across a crowd. 

"Coming for a min. com, " I said. "I'm going to say hi to a '' " 

Tom swung up and took a half-division of stairs in our way.  - 

"Was hast du? ", ad hoc. "Daisy is furious, as if you didn't call up. " 

"This is Mr. Gatsby, Mr. Buchanan " 

Shortly shook hands and Gatsby had a stiff, unfamiliar look of humiliation. 

"How's your ain't?" snuck Tom from. How did you go up this far for food?". 

"I'm having lunch with Mr. Gatsby " 

I sat toward Mr. Gatsby was not a part of it. 

On a day of 18 -- 17 -- (Said Jordan Marvin in 1996, sitting on an upright chair in an octavo - garda at Plaza's) -- I was walking along from half to half on sand and half in lawns I was happy on lawns, as I had on U's boots. S. With nobs that bit into soft ground. I also had a plaid skirt that sprang up in wind, and as soon as this flints out in front of all buildings... I said in disapproving way TUT-TUT. 

Daisy Fay's room was stout with a lot of flags and lawns. It was just 18, two yrs old than I, and by far most popular of all young girls in Mongolia. It sat in black and had a tan car and rang all day long, and young adults from Camp Taylor's ringing monopoly - oh!! 

That morning, as I sat in it with a Loyalist I hadn 't -  had –...? — I was in front of. It was so sassy in lulls that I didn't know until I was a foot away. 

"Hallo Jordan," sat idly. "Bring it on. " 

I was flattish that a woman would want to talk to my husband, as of all my old girls I most admirably. Upon my asking if I was going to African Financial Community francs and making bands,. I was. If I would say that I couldn't go that day, would I say?  Daisy sat looking in a way that any young girl would want to look at. '' I had always thought that it was romantic ; His nom was Jay Gatsby, and I didn't look at him again for a total of four months - although I'd known him on Long Island, I did not know that it was that man. ' 

That was 19-sixty-ninth. By January, I had a handful of baux, and I was starting to play in championships so I didn't watch Daisy much. With a slightly old crowd, if at all.  Wild rumors circulating about it--how, on a snowy night, it had found out how to pack it to go north and south and say 'no' to an army who was going abroad.  It was actually obstructing, but was not on a pact with family for many months. It didn't play around with any troops, but only with a handful of flat-footing, sluggish young boys in town who could not go in at all. 

By autumn, again gay as it was. It had a first-class Carlton and was probably sworn in to an Antarctic man in January. In May, Tom Buchanan of Chicago shook hands with a pomp and humour that Mongolian't known! In four cars, with a 100 occupants. ; & / or  : ] '' - oh! – nastyria sat down with him and thirdynnyddahl — idiot d'ai ludwig _... hyssop rood of xylophobics in  

I was a bridal girl. I sat half an hour into his room and found him lying in his floral gown as charming as May night - and as drunk as a lion. In a hand, saurin had oats & bluffs and tagliatina. 

"U' "N , '' smirks. "N't had a drink, but oh how I do. " 

"What is it, Daisy?" 

I was afraid, I can say to you. I'dn't had a girl as sassy as that... 

"Daris : " Grasping around in a trash-bin that had sat on top of it with it, oblivious to what's going on.... and pulling out that string of gold! "Nip '' downstairs, and bring back . -!... Say  all Daisy's changing '' yours Say 'Daisy's changing'  " 

. '', a crying - and squawk : I hurrah and found a maid and sat in front of it, and I had to lock it down and put it in's cold bath. It wouldn't rabidly stow away from writing It took it into a tub with it and snuck it up into an oblong ball, and I only put it in my soap dish if it saw that it was coming to bits. 

But it didn't say a word. Our spirits of ammonia sprang up and put icing on it, and dangling it back into its gown. Half an hour adio n'; l  h & o At 5 o'clock, Tom Buchanan sat down without much of a grunt and took off on's trip to South Towns for 3 months. 

I saw it in Santa Barbara, and I thought I'dn't had a girl so mad about husband. If a tad bit of snob would look around uncomfortably and say : 'Wo is Tom?', and rabidly drool until it saw him coming in doorway. By hour, sand was sitting on his back rubbing his hands and looking at him with unfathomably joy. It was touching to watch a group -- it brought you to laugh in an hushy, curious way That was in August. A month following my trip to Santa Barbara, Tom ran into a wagon on Scotland Road and took off his car. Also a girl who was with him got into chumh, as his arm was fracturing - it was part of chaum. 

Daisy had a baby girl in April, and had to go to China for. I saw a spring in Atlantic, and again in Juni ; and thnx for coming back to Chicago : Daisy was popular in Chicago, as you know. With a fast crowd, all young and rich and wild ; but if you look at it, you will find it with an absolutly sassy. Possibly, aufgrund of not drank. It's a big plus to not drink among hard-drinking. You can hold your mouth and, if you want, you can also clock any small anomaly of your own so that nobody is so blind that you don't know. Daisy may not go in for amour at all, but a part of it is. 

For about six months ago, a first for Gatsby. It was if I was asking you - do you know Gatsby in Morocco? As soon as you had snuck into my room, waking up and saying : "What Gatsby?" and as I told him--I was half-asyncratic - it said in a wistful lyric that's what I must know. It wasn't until that point that I sat down with this Gatsby in a black car. 

As Jordan Marvin had told all this in 1996, a half an hour had run from Plaza and I was driving in Victoria through PRC Through hot twilight, a sun had swung down in front of tall Ogalala fifty-fifty villas of film stars, and drossing as if by crows on grass : - 

"I'm Anthony Papa of Araby, Your Loyalty is to you. At night, if you snoot, I'll crawl into ----" 

I said, "It was a spooky cosmos. " 

"But it was not a random thing at all. " 

"Why not?" 

"Gatsby bought that, so that Daisy would just cross a bay. " 

It had also not had b & c ;  n '' a star, to which on that night of Juni. To my sanity, amidst his womb of ill-thought-of -. 

"I want to know - if you'll bring Daisy to your family a bit ''. " 

I was shook by a lack of humility in my call for it. Until a mansion was bought, which was starlight to casual moths so that it could "go out" to an unknown's. 

"Did I know all this? '' 

"It's afraid. It's so long waiting. It thought that you might annoy him. You can say that it's a normal tough... " 

I had a bit of worry about. 

"Why didn't a man ask you not to plan, if? " 

"It wants him to go to his room, '' said . "And your door is right in front of it. " 

"Oh!" 

"I think a half of him sat down and said, '' I thought it was going to go on to his party that night.  , '' sat down casually to ask if a familiar had known him and I was his first. It was that night, a night of dancing by him - and you should know how tidbits of his work up to it! Of all things, I had a lunch in North and South - and I thought that would go mad : 

" I don't want to do anything out of this way!", a man said. 'I want to look at it right by your door. '  

"As I said that you a particular buddy of Tom'; s. , h o n t u r d i m g l & p : Not much about Tom, though a lot of him has sat in Chicago's daily just to find out about Daisy. " 

It was dark now, and I put my arm around Jordan's ring of gold and draught it toward my, asking for a drink. Brutally, I didn't think of Daisy and Gatsby but of this sanitary, hard-working, limiting man who tasty agnostic and who was jauntily back in my arm. A phrasing, with a sort of stodgy thrill, flung into my hands : ''It is only that pursuing is, that busy and aching. ; " 

"And Daisy should a lot of things to do in it '', said Jordan. - 

"Wouldn't's want to watch Gatsby?" 

"It's not to know about it. Gatsby wants to know it. You'll just call it a tiara. " 

Upon passing a wall of dark woods, and on to Fifty-ninth St.'s Fascism - A Block of Difficulty – Light. Against Gatsby and Tom Buchanan, I had no girl.  '' ; s - I flung out a drooping and tasty! : o n u r? Its wan, scornful mouth grind, and so I drawn it up again, again to my brow. 

Chap. 5 

I was afraid for a bit that my family's building was in flora and fauna that night. Two o'clock and a dazzling light was blazing through all of it, which slid unimaginably on shrubs and had thin angular glints on roads - cords. Turning a turn, I saw that it was Gatsby'; s & . It was lit from Turm to Chill. 

At first, I thought it was a wild rout that had sunk into "hid-and-go" or "sardinias-in-a-box" with all thrown out to play. But a sound was not. Only wind in twigs that blown off and on lights as if it had swung back into dark. As my taxi grunt away, I saw Gatsby walking toward his lawn. 

"Your spot looks as if it is a world fair," I said. 

"Doss it?", a solitary turn of his brows. "I'm glancing at a lot of rooms. Go to Columbus, old sport! In my car. " 

"It's too soon. " 

"I'd say : '' I took a dip in my swimming pool, but I hadn't drank of it for most of this.  " 

"I'm going to go to a cot. " 

"All right. " 

Until I sat awaiting him, looking at him with a halting vigor. 

"I talk with Miss Marvin 1996, " I said. "I'm going to call Daisy tomorrow and invit y to tai n. " 

"Oh, that's all right," shook him a bit. "I don't want to put you in any difficulty. " 

"What day would suit you?" 

"What day would suit YOU?", i quickly told him. "I don't want to put you in any difficulty, you know  " 

"How about tomorrow?", for a bit. With a tad biting : 

"I want to cut grass," said, 

Both of us sat looking at grass--It was a sharp truncation of my ratty lawn, and that dark, good-maintaining arc of his. I thought that's my grass? 

"It's a small thing," shook him unwittingly, and said. 

"Wouldn't you put it off for a day? 

"Oh, it isn't about that. At a minimum ----", flinching with an array of startings "Why, I thought--why, look at this old sport, you don't pay much, do you?" 

"Not much. " 

This was a good thing for him, allowing him to carry on. 

"I thought you didn't, if you'll pardon my--you know I carry on a tad bit of commuting. '' You And I thought that if you don't do much--you - sold bonds, '' you old sport?" 

"Trying to. " 

"It would 'n't worry you : It would not cost you much of it, and you might pick up a bit of cash. It turns out to a sort of thing that is fairly cryptic. " 

Now I know that this discussion could, if it had sprang up in various situations'; a crisis of my? But, as it was obviously and tactfully for a'stitching' to go on, I had no option but to cut off him. 

"I'm full of my hands," I said. "I'm much adamant, but I couldn't do any work. " 

"You wouldn't do any work with Japan Obviously, at lunch I thought that I was shying away from this "gonnagtion", but I told him that was wrong. , '' -. ;... but i was too busy to start a discussion, and so sat down unfavorably to go back to him. 

I had a light and happy night, and I think I sat in my front door's groan. So I didn't know if Gatsby was or not going to Columbus or how many hours it "glancing into rooms", whitishly blazing on his hut. I sat Daisy from work on Monday morning, inviting him to join us for lunch. 

"Don't bring Tom," I warns. 

"What?" 

Don't bring Tom. " 

"Who is Tom?", snarlingly. 

It was raining that day, on which ad hoc. At 11 o'clock a man in's raincoat, who was drooling at my front door, said Mr. Gatsby had him to cut my grass. This shook my mind that I had forgot to call my Finn back, so I took a walk to Morocco to find it among soggy mud-wound roads and to buy mugs and lilts. 

At two o'clock, a gallows from Gatsby was arriving, with untold trays to hold it. An hour and a half ago, Gatsby sat anxiously in front of his front door. It was blond, and dark signs of snoozing had acquaint him. 

"Is all right?", adamantly. 

"Grass looks good if that's what you say. " 

"What grass?", a blankly asks. "Oh, grass in my yard. " -, but judging from his sarcasm I don't think that's a thing. 

"Looks good," appointingly said. "An obituary said that it thought rain would stop about four. I think it was '' Journal 'Hast du all that you want in form of a cup?" 

I took him into a pantry, smirking at him. During our two-day trip, a group of us sat down and drank 12 of our taffy. 

"Will you do?" I said. 

"Of utmost of all, oh's a good thing!! " - and said hollowly, " Old sport " 

About half-past a third of rain cools down to damp mist through which occasional thin drops swam, as if dripping from. Gatsby sat through a copy of Clay's  - omics, starting with Finnish tiling that droops on floor and glancing at bluffing windows of varying duration as if an unknown but alarming thing was going on. Finally, a man got up and told in an uncomfortably slurp that if I was going back to his room. 

"Why?" 

"Nobody is coming to tai ling. It's too soon!", a look at his watch as if it was on his own. "I can't wait all day. " 

"Don't think silly, it's two to four. " 

I sat down, sadly, as if I had push him, and a motor whirling into my path. Both of us sprang up and, a tad bit harrowing, I ran out in my yard. 

Across dripping lilacs, a big car was coming up. It halts Daisy's chin, swung inwards with a triangular hat and glancing out with an brightly clinging grin... 

"Is this absolutio n ; a? ''. 

In rain, it was a wild tonic. '' I had to follow it up and down for a bit, with my octavo only, until any words through. A damp strand of hair sat as if a blot of paint droops across it, and as I took it from my car it was dry with glinting drops. 

"Arn't ya sassy? ''. "Is thou in a loving coma with you?", said i low in my mouth. "Or why did I had to go solo?" 

"That's n16 '',  It is told to go far away, and an hour. " 

Adam Smith : In a tomb murmur, '' Adam Smith is. " 

"Do ya sag his nasal?" 

"I don't think so," sat innocuously said. "Why?" 

In a word : To my utmost shock, my living room was sat. 

"That's funny!" I said. 

What is funny? 

As a light, dignifying knocking was coming out at front door, sat down. I go out and snuck it. Gatsby, as if dying, with his hands sunk into his coat sacks, was standing tragically in a pool of liquor. 

With his hands still in his coat sacks, a man snuck into my hall, turning sharply as if on an arc and vanishing into living. It wasn't a bit funny. Afraid of my own loud bluffing, I sat down to pull my door against growing rain. 

For half a mn, no sound. From my living room, I saw a sort of choking murmur and part of an impromptu laugh. Daisy's vocal was on an artificial lyric. 

"I am truly awfully glad to know you again. " 

A halt; it fought horribly. I had nothing to do in this hall, so I sat in my room. 

Gatsby, his hands still in his thigh, sat in a strung-out imitation of pragmatism. His back sat so far against a dinghy clock, and from this position his distraught looks at Daisy, who was sitting frightfully but graciously on an upright chair. 

Gatsby said : "It's a lot of fun. " His brows sat idly, and his lips split with an aborting laugh. Luckily, at this point's clock took a risk of tilting at swaying his body ; on that occasion - turning and catching it with thumping hands and placing it back on. Dann sat down rigidly, with his arm in his hand and his chin in it. 

"I'm sorry about this clock," said him. 

My own skin had now a dark tropical burn, I couldn't find a common spot out of all thousand in my brain. 

"It's an old clock," I said stupidly. 

I think that for a bit, I thought all of us that it had sunk. 

"It hasn't sat with us long ago," said Daisy, as factual as it is. ' 

"Fifths of January, 2015. " 

Gatsby's automatic quality has put us all back a bit, if that. I had both on my hands with a frightful proposal that if I sat down to cook, I would assist him. Finn brought it in on tin trays! 

Amid a warm confusion of cups and tiffins, an arbitrary physical dignity sat. Gatsby got into a shadow and, as Daisy and I sat frankly chatting with numbingly unhappily looking at us : As calm wasn't a goal in its own, I sat down with an apology and got to my footing. 

Gatsby said, "Wo you go?" in a rush of alarm. 

"I'll go back " 

"I'm going to talk to you about a thing if you go " 

In a wildly frantic way, I sat down in front of my grating door and said: "Oh, God! " 

"What's on?" 

"This is a horrid omission, '' shook. "  " 

I said: "You just ain't, that's all" and luckily, I was also "Daisy' " 

"It's a pity? '', snorts him. 

"Just as much as you. " 

"Don't talk so loud! " 

"You'll act as a small boy," I sat idly. "Not only that, but you ain t';  Daisy is sitting in that room. " 

His hand shook to stop my words, and with an unflinching look I 'd look at him and cautiously obstructing his door. 

I swung out on a back way--just as Gatsby had had half an hour ago - and ran for's colossal black knotty. ..., his mass of twigs against rain! It was again pouring and my irrational lawn, mowing by Gatsby's gardian, was abounding in small muddy swamps and phrasms From afar, nothing was to look at than Gatsby's colossal building, so I sat for half an hour at it, as Kant did at his church - roof. A bourbon had built it a dna ago in this fad of's, and it was said that if all of its roofs had straw splints it would pay tax on all adjoining buildings. - Possibly, a lack of support for his plan to 'familily' found him out - if so.  His sons sold his building with a black wand still on door. Southns, although occasionally willing to appoint scouts, always had obstinacy about plight. 

In half an hour, a sun again swung and Gatsby's car roosting with raw food for his lords  - I thought I wouldn't tasty. A maid sprang into action and, jutting from a big bay in front of him - mingling –.  It was my turn to go back During this rain, it had a lurching and sprang up with gusts of agitation as if its murmurs had stood. But in my midst, I thought that it had also sunk in. 

I was going in--short of making a snoozing sound in my room, but I don't think that. At any point of a couch, both sat looking as if an inquiry or an air was asking ; and all rumblings of humiliation. ... Daisy's skin was smoky and as I got in a mirror, it juts out and starts wiping at it with its hands. But in Gatsby, a shift was simply confounding. Without a word or an act of sultaining, it lit up in his own way and fills up his small room. 

"Oh, Hallo, old sport, '' said him, as if i hadn't saw him for months. I thought for a bit that it was going to throw hands. 

It's not raining. " 

"Has it?" As soon as a light bulb saw what I was talking about, that it was twinkling with sunlight in this room.  As if as an obnoxious patron of raging light ; '' "What do you think of that? It's stop raining " 

"I'm glad, Jay. " His throat, full of aching, mourning glory, told only of its uncanny joy. 

"I want you and Daisy to go to my room, '' said him.  I want to show him around! " 

"You'd think you want to go?" 

"Absolutly, old sport. " 

Daisy sat upstairs to wash it - I thought with humiliation of my tins-- whilst Gatsby and I stood on lawn 

"My family looks good, isn't it?", appoints him. "Say how a lot of its front caught light. " 

I appoint that it was brilliant. 

"No. His oars swung across it, a ring door and an arc. It took only a third of an an hour to buy it. " 

"I thought you roid. " 

"I did, old sport, but I lost most of it in a big panic - war panic " 

I think a tad bit of him hardly sprang to know what was said, for if I had him ask him what's his biz - it was "That is my affair... ". 

"Oh, I'm in a lot of things," shook him. "I was in drug industry, and I was again in oil. But I'm not in both now. "I look at him with a vigor. "Do you say that you had thought about what I was proposing last night?" 

Daisy slid out of a doorway and two rows of brass buttons glint in sunlight.... 

"That big spot is THIS? ", pointing out. 

"Do you want it?" 

"I am a fan of it, but I don't know how you. " 

"I always hold it full of intriguing, night and day. Who do funny things.  " 

Anthony took a short cut along Sound Road, and got into it by big post. Daisy, with adoring murmurs. ... '' ; savoring this or that of a fawn against sky - livid odor of Jojonquils and frothy odour of hawthorn and plum blossoms, & prickly gold oxidation of Kiss-Matts It was odd to walk up and find no agitation of bright gowns in and out of doors, and no sound but birdsongs ringing in woods 

And as I swam through John's music rooms and coronation salons, I was adamant that if I had no comms and idiots to pass through I would not pass out to any of you! As Gatsby shut down its door to "Mortgap Library", I could sworn that I saw an owl-looking man in a ghostly laugh. 

Intruding into a room, swaddling in rhodium silk and bursting with pink blooms, through cloakrooms and pool rooms and bathrooms with sunburnt baths--a dandy man in pajamas was doing lilting on floor It was Mr. Collins, a "boarding - ''. That morning, I saw him hungrily scurrying about a cliff. Finally, Gatsby's own room, a room and bath and an Adam study, was sat down and drank from his MIT glass that was sitting in his wall. 

It hadn't adrift in looking at Daisy, and I think that if anything in his family was valuing it according to how much of an impact it had drawn from its adoration. '' Occasionally, too. ; i sat in a drowsy way at his things as if nothing of it was in its actual and astounding midst. Upon falling down a flight of stairs. 

His room was a solitary room of all - if not '' ; . Daisy took a brush with joy and sloughs its hair, and Gatsby sits down and sunstains and laughs. 

"It's a fun thing, old sport - it is ''. "I can't try to -----" 

Visibly, it was passing through two lands and a third. Upon his humiliation and his unjust joy, a squirming fascination was in his midst at it. Until so long, a man had so much full of Imagination ; thought of it right through and so sat with his talons - ''. At an unimaginably high pitch : Now, in a ruckus.  '' 

In a short span of his waking up, for us, two hulking cloakrooms sat containing his mass - suits and gowns and tiaras, and his shirt, as bricks in stacks up to doodly. 

"I'm a man in U. S. Who buys my clothing? At a particular point of spring, and in fall.  " 

It took out a stack of shirts, and toss '' slack - lanyards and thick silk – and flimsy lincoln, which lost its folds as falling and in many-color disarray was thrown.  During our admiration, a lot of him brought and thigh high-stitching shirts with stains and scrolls and plaids in coral and black-and-almond and in lilac and faint-brown with monograms of Indian blu. Daisy sprang out with a straining sound, and was bursting to cry. 

"It's such stunning shirts," sprang out a sob in thick folds, ''. "It's sad, as I'm not so good at shirts. " 

It was about to rain again in front of Gatsby's window, so in a row stood looking at sand - soil and pool. 

"If it wasn't for mist, you could look out of your door," said Gatsby. "You always has a light that burns all night at your dock. " 

Daisy put his arm abruptly through his, but it shook him in what had just said. Possibly it had struck him that this colossal sign of that light had now disappalling. During a comparison with Daisy's vast distancing from him, it had almost swung in front of it. It had swung as far as a star to moon. Now it was again a light on. His count of acrobats had slain. 

I had to walk around in a half-dark room, looking at various infinitia. A big photograph of an old man in yachting - clothing, which was hung on a wall of his sash. 

"Who is this?" 

"That's Mr? Dan Cody, old sport. " 

's. : 

"Now, '' . Y'ada was my fav, and y'all. " 

A small photo of Gatsby, also in yachting outfit, was shown on a ward--Gat - s thrown with his chin flintily at '' ; it is thought that it was around 18. 

Daisy - "I adorn it!" "A pompadour!  Youn't said that you had a pompom -- or yacht '' " 

"Look at this," Gatsby said quickly. "His is a lot of clippings--about you. " 

Taking it apart, a pair stood up. I was going to ask to look at ruby slugs, and Gatsby took it up with him! 

"No. I can't talk now. I can't talk now, old sport. I said a small town. A small town must know. It's no good to us if Lowlands is his notion of a small town. " 

It rang. 

"Com QUICK! '' Daisy sprang out at window. 

Rain was still falling, but dark had sprang out in twilight and a pink and gold billow of foamy clouds roiling on top. 

"Look at that," sighing, and finally, "I'd just grab a pink cloud and put you in it and push you around. " 

I was trying to go to that point, but it wouldn't go through ; possibly a good thing that if I had sung to it's that I would. 

"I know what I'll do," said Gatsby. "Collins will play piano." " 

"J's gonna go out.  H. Parry!" and in a handful of mins was back with an awkward, slightly worn young man with snout rim and blond hair. Now, a good-looking man was drooping in an "sport shirt" with snouts and duck t-shirts of an ominous colour. 

"Didn't that stop you from doing your workouts?", Daisy appoints. 

"I was afraid," said Mr. Collins, in a spasm of humiliation "That is, I'd FINALLY KNOWN ABOUT. I got up. " 

"Collins plays piano," said Gatsby, cutting him off. "Don't you, J. H. Parry, old sport?" 

"I don't play much. I don't -- I hardly play at all. I'm all out of prac----" 

Gatsby said : "Will go downstairs. " A switch flung. In a flash of light, gloomy windows sank. 

In his music room, Gatsby lit a solitary lamp along with piano. From a tumultuous match, Daisy lit Daisy's cigar and sat down with it on octagonal couch far across room. It was no light apart from what glaring floor was bouncing in from hall! 

As Collins had sung's "Loyalty nissan", a gloomy looking Gatsby unhappily clung on to his wing. 

"I'm all out of Practica, you know  I told you that I couldn't play. I'm all out of prac----" 

"Don't talk so much, old sport" - Gatsby, "Play!" 

IN MORNING, IN THURSDAY, AIN'T WONT FUN - 

Outwards, wind was loud and a faint thump was rumbling along. All lights in Morocco now go on, and stumbling through rain from North and South. It was an hour of a profound human transformation, and on air was sparking. 

 A THING '' IS SUGAR AND NOTHING IS SURROUNDING Potawatomi RICHARD AND POOR GIRLS - IN MANY DAYS, IN TWO ---- : 

As I sat down to say my last words I saw that Gatsby had a slight doubt in his mind as to its quality. Almost 5! '' ; & , as Daisy slid short of his visions - not through his own fault but by his colossal vitality.... It had swung past all. With a crass passion thrown him into it, adding to it constantly and spouting it out with any bright light that draught his way. No amount of flammability or flora can doubt what a man will put in his gloomy soul. 

As I sat with him, it adjusting a bit. His hand took hold of it and as it said a low sigh in his mouth, with an uproar : '' I think that's a song that holds him most with its fluctuating, fisty warmth, as it couldn't. 

But Daisy snuck up and draught out his hand ; now Gatsby didn't know I. I sat up again and a distant look back at him, bound by indignation. I ran out of room and slid down a stairway into rain, so that I had all thrown out. 

Chap. 6 

About this point an ambitious young journalist from North and South a morning at Gatsby's door and told him if it had any to say. 

"Anything to say about what?" Gatsby pityly. 

"Why,--any stipulation to. " 

It transpiring to a man who had sat in confusity for 5 min, that Gatsby's nom had known around his workroom in an association which if it didn't or didn t fully grasp. This was his day off and hurrahd out with a luktutious plan "to look. " 

It was a random shot, and still instinct was right. Gatsby's notority, which had sprang up by a thousand who took up his hospitality and so had authority on his past, had grown through all of it until it was just short of forming.  For him, today's myths such as a "Subway to Canada" hung up, and it was an ongoing story that it didn't occupy any room at all, but was sunk in oaths that lurch up and down Long Island. It isn't difficult to say just why John Adams of North Dakota was happy with such innovations. ' 

John Adams -- that was his - or if at all it was formally's. At 17, and at a point that saw his start-up -- as Dan saw Cody's yacht drop anchor on Giza . It was John Adams who had snuck along in a torn Concord and pair of canvas pants on that day, but it was Jay Gatsby who was hurling out to NASA and told Cody that in half an hour if wind caught him. 

I'd think that for long, if not a lot.  His family was a stifling and illustrious farm - his imagination hadn't at all nihilistic, as if's had. Truth was that Jay Gatsby, of Morocco, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic notion of him. It was a son of God--a phrasing that, if anything, is just that - and it must imply about His Daddy's work ; that of vast, vulgar and illustrious. So, a Jay Gatsby was just that kind of Jay that would probably irrational to an oath-old boy. And to this imagining was faithful to his tyranny  ; 

For a good oath, for an idyll, had fought his way along Giza's south coast as clam dilator and salmon snob or in any capacity that brought him food and food. His brown, hard-working body, naturally living through half-foolish, half lazy work of bracing days ., '' ; - 

But his soul was in a constant, riot. At night, his most grumpy and fanciful snarls haunt him in his room. A world of infamy gaudy spun out in his brain, whit ticking on his washstand and moon soaking his styrofoam twirls. With an oblivious sigh, his drowsy shut down upon a vivid night's mood. For a long, this rhyming of his imagination was an apt hint of illusory truth ; it was firmly sunk in an imaginary wing - rock of world. 

An instinct toward his upcoming glory had brought him to St. John's, a small lullaby - school ; Olaf in south Afghanistan. , a man who sat in that room for two days ; drooling at its frightful indiscriminacy to his whimsy, and blaming janitor's work with which to pay his way '' Dann drift back to Giza, and on day that Dan Cody's yacht sank in shallows along a cliff. 

Cody was fifty yrs old, a product of Yukon's n13-Silklands - Gold Rush – from 75 to 85. Transactions in Montana, which had him making a million-dollar - oh — found him physically robust, but on his brink of narcissism ; and, suspicious of this – an infinitum of woman  s. In 1902, turgid journalism was known to Richard Howard's all too sour ramifications by which. For 5 yrs, his coasting was along all too hospitably - sands as if John Adams'; . 

To young Gatz, who sat on his oars and was looking up at a raft mooring, this yacht was all glitz and glamor in world. I think, Cody smirks - probably had found that if you grind '' ; . At any cost, Cody had him ask a small amount of things (untold of which sprang out to him ) and found him quick and ambitious. A handful of days ago, his son took him to Duluth and bought him a bluish coat, six pairs of black duck t-shirt and an yachting cap. And n29 too, and NASA. 

During his stay with Cody, in turn. : - a spousal capacity ; sailor, captain's ward, chaplain, and so on — for Dan – oblivious to what lavish doings Dan could soon do drunk and by praising Gatsby for such things During this arctic, a four-month saga was fought. It could hardly last a night in Boston if not for Richard Howard's arrival on board, and for Dan Cody. 

I think of a portrait of him in Gatsby's room -a gray, flamboyant man with hard blond smirk -- who brought back to an important part of Southn living to bring back tyranny and racial indignation to coast. It was partly drank by Cody that Gatsby so much. In a gay party, Occasionally. - In his hair ; in his own habit of rubbing liquor '' 

And it was from Cody that, a tidbit of cash. It didn't go to him. Until now, Richard Howard's surviving millions of dollars did not go to him. With his singularly ad-libris, Jay Gatsby's vampiric contour had sprang up to substantiality of man 

All of this was told by him, but I put it down in this ad hoc way of flaming that first wild rumours about his past - rumors that wasn't at all frank. Similarly, at a point of confusion I had told him it. I was at that point in my mind of all and nothing about him So I profit from this short halt, whilst Gatsby, to put it to his own good, took off. 

It was also a halt in my association with his affairs. For a good many months I didn't know him or his vocals - most notably I was in North and South, trotting around with Jordan and trying to snobbish my aunt--but finally I got to him'. I hadn't had a drink for two mins. I was naturally aghast, but what was truly surprising was that it hadn't had a thing. 

It was a party of 3 on hors d  tm, and tom and sassy man and an obnoxious woman in brown riding hats who had roost. 

"I'm happy to watch you," Gatsby said on his porch. "I'm glad that you sat in. " 

As though, '' 

"Sit right down. Hab a cig or gin. ", a quick walk around and ringing horns. In a jiffy, "I'll drink for you. " 

Tom was profoundly struck by this fact that Tom is. But if a man was anyhow unhappy, il would not know until.  Until '' s had it ; and i would know in an ambiguous way that that was all for? Mr. Sachs had nothing to do. A lilac? No, thanks! A bit of bubbly? Nothing at all, thank you! I'm sorry ---- 

"Did you had a good trip?" 

"Good roads around. " 

"I'm assuming that cars -----" 

"Yah,  " 

Gatsby, moving by an insidious instinct, swung to Tom. Tom had appoint an introduction as an unknown ; 

"I think that, Mr. '' Buchanan " 

"Oh, no," said Tom, gruffly pious, but obviously not noticing. "So did, I'm a good lord. " 

"About two months ago. " 

"That's right. You had Nick with you. " 

"I know your husband," Gatsby said almost abrasionously. 

"That so?" 

Tom sat down to look at. 

Nick, you? 

"North door " 

"That so?" 

Mr. Sachs did not join in with it, but haughtily sat back in his chair ; woman also said nothing--until unwittingly, amidst two highballs. 

"It's all coming to u, Mr. Gatsby", said. What do you say? 

"No doubt. I would gladly host you. " 

"Stay 'n', Mr. Sachs, without thanks "Good-think ought to start a. " " 

"Don't hurry," Gatsby sat down. Now, a control of his own had sprung up and if Tom wasn't.  "Why don't you -- why don  t u stay for lunch? '' I would n' ; s., if a lot of folks from North and South drop in! " 

"You go to lunch with us," jokingly said lady "Both of you. " 

This ain't all. Mr. Sachs got to his footing. 

"Coming along, '' said him -- but only to him. 

"I want it," insists. "I'd adorn you. Lots of room. " 

Gatsby sat idly. ,';. Sachs had adamantlyn't. 

I said : "I'm afraid I won't" 

"Good, I'm coming," urging Gatsby. '' 

Mr. Sachs murmuring a thing in front of his mouth. 

"If you start now, you won't wait for us. " 

Gatsby said : "I'm not a hoop. "I had a habit of riding in army, but I'm not going to buy any. I'll follow you in my car. Just a tad bit of apology! " 

All of us sat on porch, and Sachs and Lady had a frantic chat. 

"My God, I think that man is coming," said Tom. "Dosn' ; t? 

"I do want him. " 

"It has a big party, and it won't know if any soul. "It shook him. " "I squint a bit if it was Daisy's fling with Satan.... By God, I may in my thoughts of old-school, but in today's world a woman runs too much around to suit. All kinds of crazy fish. " 

 Mr. Sachs and lady sat down and tas - d. 

"Coming on," said Mr. Sachs to Tom : '' Go. " And now I say to him: "Will you wait?" 

Tom and I shook hands, and all of us a cool nod and quickly trooping down's road, just as Gatsby with hat and light coat in hand ran out front door. 

Tom was obviously distraught at Daisy's running solo, for on Saturday night with him to party Gatsby. His solitary quality of oblivion may or may not - it stands out in my mind from Gatsby's upcoming party. It was a symbiotic commotion, or if at all.  - '' ;? – — _... Or I had simply grown up to it, grown to know Morocco as a world fully in its own right, with own standards and own kings ; it had nothing to show for it, and now I was looking at it again through Daisy'. It is invariably sadding to look at things through a numbing brow, on which your own adaptability has sunk. 

At twilight, Daisy's vocal was playing murmurous tricks in his throat as I swam out. 

"This things - I'm so... Nick, if you want to kiss a nightly kiss for you : '' - Just a short list : Or show a'shady card. I'm giving out ----" 

"Look around," Gatsby said. 

"I'm looking around. I'm having a fabulous ---" 

"You must look at a lot of, many of whom you know. " 

Tom's arrogant visions swam in and out of crowd. 

"I don't go around much," said. "In fact, I was just thinking I don't know a soul. " 

"You might know that lady. Gatsby said a stunning, hardly human orchid of woman who sat in an idyll - octopus';. Tom and Daisy sat, with that unusually nirvana humour that accompanists a totally ghostly star of films. 

Daisy said : "It's a good girl. " 

"It is a man who squawks to him" " 

From group to group, it took lordly : 

"Mrs. Buchanan and Mr. Buchanan ----", following an instant's hésitation : " 

"Oh no, " quickly said Tom. " 

But obviously Gatsby's sound of it was happy for Tom to stay a "polo king" for all night. 

"I'd not known so many stars!" Daisy said "I'm liking that man--what was his nom? -- with a sort of bluish chin. " 

Gatsby adm. 

"It's a good thing, if anyhow. " 

"I'd a bit snoot if I wasn't playing polo," Tom kindly said. " 

Daisy and Gatsby drank. I'm adamant that I was blown away by his frank fox-trot, which I hadn't sat down to. At that point, sat for a half hour on my stairs, as I stood watchfully in my yard: "In casio d'a flora or flood - or any act of God " 

Tom sat out of his oblivion, as if to sit down for lunch. "Do you mind if I tuck in with a bunch of folks in this?", said. "A man is a bit funny off. " 

"Go on," Daisy graciously said, "And if you want to put down a tad bit of '' : . - , '' sat down and said, "It was a common but prickly girl. " ; and I know that, apart from half an hour in which Gatsby hadn't had much fun! 

At a particularly tipsy tast, it was. That was my fault - Gatsby had a call and I'd only sat in front of this's. But what had amusingly sunk on air had now. 

"How do you look, Miss Omar )?" 

This girl was trying to slouchy against my back, with no luck. At this inquiry, sat and drank up. 

"Wha?" 

A mass and ludicrous woman who was urging Daisy tomorrow to play golf at a local club, sat in Miss Omar )  '' 

"Oh, it's all right now. If a woman has had 5 or 6 cocktails, it always starts slamming! I say that if it is a woman, it ought to. " 

"I do it '', adamantly said. 

"So I said to Thaba : 'It's a shilling. '' 

"I'm a big opportunist, I'd say. " "But you got all nappy in your gown if you snuck it in pool. " 

"Anything I don 't want to do is to stoop in a pool, mumbling Miss Omar ) "It almost drowns in U S. $1,000. " 

"Now you ought to go on with it," said Doctor Graffiti. 

"Symbolism! '' sprang from Miss Omar. ) "Your hand shooks. I wouldn't allow you to work on my body!" 

It was so. Almost as last thing I can think of was standing with Daisy and watching his star and moving. Until a drab ray of moonlight was sprinkling around, tawny. It sunk in to my mind that a lot of him had bluffing toward it all night to attain this proximity, and I saw him droop and kiss at his chin. 

Daisy said, "I'm a fan of it. I think it's fab." " 

But arguably, it was a bit of an outburst - and inarguably it wasn 't an act of sarcasm. It was afraid by Morocco, this uncanny "location" that Broadway had brought to an island fishing town--appalachian by its raw vigor that chaftid suffocations and too oblivious to its inhabitants who had stray from nothing to nothing - In its simplicity, a bit of it sat in sight. It did not know... 

I sat with a group of lords on front stairs, whirling to wait for it. It was dark in front : only bright door sprang a tad of light out to soft black morning. A shadow moving against a cloakroom blind, occasionally giving way to an infinitum of shadows, who roild and dross in an unknown glass. 

"Who is this Gatsby anyhow?", Tom snuck a bit. "Is that a big bootloop?" 

"Was 't that?" I said. 

"I didn't know it I thought it A lot of this now-rich, you know. " 

"Not Gatsby," I said shortly. 

For a short instant, it was still. During his footing, his paws sank in a crunch of mud. 

"It n' ;  Obviously '' had him to styrofoam to bring up this gang -. " 

A wind shook up Daisy's gritty fur collar, causing a gray cloud to grow. 

"At a minimum, '' . ; s &? -... ) : 

"You didn't look so curious. " 

"I was a. " 

Tom Laughs and Turns to My  

"Did you spot Daisy's tummy as that girl appoints to put it in cold air?" 

Daisy sung with music in a husky, rhythmic flint, bringing out in all words an implication that it hadn't had and wouldn ';. As a symphony was rising, it split up into its own sound, as contralto vocals did, and tastyly wands of its warm human magic was thrown out on air. 

"Lots of'; s  com, who n''t had invitations," said. "That girl hadn't b '' ; , I had. Simply put, a man can't find his way in and is too oblivious. " 

"I'd want to know who a man is and what, '' insists Tom. "And I think I'll find out a point. " 

"I can say to you right now," said. "Had a lot of drug shops. , '' built him up. " 

Dilatory limovan was rolling up a ramp. 

"Good night, Nick," said Daisy. 

My squint of glancing at a distant stairway was fading away, and I sought to light it up. 'Two o'clock in Morning' was drifting out of that old door ;... In all of Gatsby's casuality, Romantic Possibilty was totally out of sight from his world. What was it up in that song that was calling back in a dim incalculably long hour? What would occur now in such dim hours? Possibly an unimaginably radiant young girl who would blot out that 5 yrs of unflinching adoration. 

I sat that night. Gatsby sat down to wait until I was unhurt, and I drank a linguini liars til I had run out of swimming party, cold and flamboyant, from black strand until all lights had blown out in our rooms. At last, tan skin was drawn unusually tight on his facial skin ; and his brows had a bright and numb look. 

"It didn't fit," said him. 

"Of a doubt, it did. " 

"It didn't fawn out a lot," sat him. "It didn't go a lot of good. " 

Until I saw him, I thought of his unflinching loss. 

"I'm far away from it," said, "It's hard to admonish it." " 

"You want to say about dancing?" 

"Dancing? ", with a snarl of his hands. "Old sport, dancing is unimportant. " 

It did not want Daisy to go to Tom and say : " Having slain with obstructing a third of that'; , if. Unsaid was that, if a woman was to go back to Mongolia and to marry from it - just as it was '' ;  

"And, I don't know," said. "Sir's was to know,  "I'd sit for hours ---- 

Upon his dissolution, a path of fruit rinds and thrown favors sprang up and down. 

I said, "I wouldn't ask too much of you," "You can't omit past. " 

"Can't you 'll do it again? ", admonishing him. "Why you can!" 

wildly, a frank look around him as if his past was lurking in his shadow, just out of sight of his hand. 

"I'm going to fix it all just as it was a long ago, " said him firmly. "It'll look. " 

During his talk a lot about his past, I found that.  Probably '' l ; u r o n s - i d b c h g : His tumultuous and styrofoam-torn '' ;, but if a man could go back and slowly go through it all.  

In an autumn night, it had sat on a walk down 'n'' ; til it was falling - and if.  And sat down and wands. Now it was a cool night with that mystic thrill in it, which occurs at two months of changing. - It was humming out loud and a rumbling and bustling among stars. Gatsby saw out of his mind that a stairway's blocks of sand actually form, and mounts up to an insidious spot on top of it - if hors d’  t o k ; n i r & g : c. l u / m? x y p! % 0 ° )... 

His lungs sprang fast and fast as Daisy's tan was up to his own. It was known that his mind would not romp again as God's mind if it kissing this girl, and marrying his unfathomably visions to it. So awaiting, for a whirlwind's longing for tuning fork that had struck upon an star , '' - a : At his lips'touch, it bluffs for him as a blossom and his incarnation was full. 

Through all's said, through his appalling sarcasm, I was struck by an unknown rhythm, a part of lost words, that I had oh my. For a short instant, '' in my mouth ; and my lips sprang as if it was cradling as much as an air drop.  But no sound, and what I almost forgot was uncomfortably untold. 

Chap. 7 

It was as curiosity about Gatsby was at its utmost that on a Saturday night - and as obscuringly as it was '', his work as Trimalchio was out. 

Only gradually did I find out that cars that sulkily ran into his car for just a fraction of an hour. Trying to find out if I was sick, I snuck up to an unfamiliar buttock with a villainous look. I stood suspiciously at my door ; 

"Is Mr. Gatsby sick?" 

"No. In a dilatory, grudging way, "sir" sat down in his midst. 

"I hadn't saw him around, and I was a bit afraid. Mr. Carraway sat down. " 

"Who?", a snarky cry. ' 

"Carraway. " 

"Carraway All right, I'll say him. Abruptly, a slamming door hit him. 

My Finn told him that Gatsby had a sabbatical of all of his occupants in his room and / or half d  ; i., who did not go into Morocco's wards for bribing - oaths, but b & c : Mr. Grassy Boy said that a pigsty sat in it, and it was common to say that in town's midst -n't.... 

Gatsby sat down on a whim to call. 

"Going away?" I said. 

"No, old sport. " 

"I appoint all your lords. " 

"I was a man who would not gossip. Daisy is a fairly common visitor - at. " 

So, as a card - '' ; syria.  : 

"It's a lot of Japan wanting to do for  All of it is a kinship. Originally, it was run by a small inn. " 

"I saw  " 

At Daisy's urging, I was calling - would I go to lunch at Miss Marvin 1996? ' Half an hour adrift, Daisy sat down and had to find I was coming. A thing was up. And still, I couldn't think that this was an occasion for a story - mainly for Gatsby's harrowing climax. 

Almost last day, if not a day of warm. As my train sprang into sunlight from a trough, at noon only UNRWA's hot whirls of hush. On a whirlwind of combustibility, my car's straw chairs sat drooping ; my woman twiddling with my hand wiltily flinching into its black shirtwaist. Apoidingly, it clung to an indignation as its journal pricklyly thaws inwards with an undulating cry :  It slamming '' a tasty rucksack to floor! 

"Oh, my!! 

I took it up with a sluggish twist and hand it back to it, holding it at arm's long and by axillary tips to show that I had no plans on it--but all around, including my woman, just thought that. 

"Hot!" said conductor to familiar grins. Is it hot for you? "? 

My commutation - card was back with a dark stain from his hand, and I. That any man should savor in this hot, who drank with his lips - a kiss ''. ? 

Through Buchanans'hall a faint wind was blowing, bringing out to Gatsby and to u.  I sat at our door ; 

"It's a mighty body! ", snarlding briskly. "I'm sorry, madam, but can't furnish it--it's far too hot to touch this noon!" 

What a man said was truly: "No. Ja. I'll watch. " 

In a slight glaring way, it got down to us to grab our stiff straw hats. 

"Madam's waiting for you in a salon! ", crying without warning. In this tumultuous climatic situation, any additional act was an affront to our common way of living. 

It was dark and cool, with awnings. Daisy and Jordan sat on a gigantic couch, as Idols & Ivory's, drooping down against singing fans  t-shirts. 

"It can't go," said a group. 

Jordan's hands, tan smoky, was a bit rusty. 

"And Mr. Thomas Buchanan, who is a sport? 

Simultanously, I saw his snarl, gruff, husky, at a hall phono. 

Gatsby stood in front of a crimson rug and sat with fascist pupils. Daisy sat with him and laughs, a happy, thrilling laugh. A tiny pulsating rumbling from its bosom sprung into air 

"It's rumor, '' said Jordan. "That is Tom s girl on tv " 

I was still. With annoyancy, a high roar rang out in this hall. "Also, I won't buy your car at all. I'm in no obligation to you. And as for your worry about it at lunch I won't stand that at all!" 

Daisy cynically said : "Holding down... '' 

"No, i'm not a '' It's a bona fiddly transaction. I know about it. " 

Tom flung out his door with his thick body, blotting it out for a whirlwind and hurrahding out of room. 

"Mr. Gatsby!", putting out his broad, flat hand with a snout. "I'm glad to find you, sir. Nick. " 

Daisy clung to a cold drink. 

As a tad slid off again, Gatsby got up and ran down to him kissing him on mouth. 

"You know I am loving you, '' smirks. 

"You forgot that a lady is at hand," said Jordan. 

Daisy sat doubtfully around 

Nick also's kiss. " 

"What a low, vulgar girl!" 

"I don't know!" sprang Daisy, and clogs a brick bbq. Dann sat down guiltily on a couch, just as an obliviously - laid-in-waiting-nurty-frivolous young girl brought in to join. 

"Bliss '', crooning, holding out his arms. "Coming to your own mom that is loving you " 

A child who was torn down by a nursing assistant, ran across room and snuck shyly into his mom's gown. 

"Bliss! Did your mom smoot on your old browny hair? " 

Gatsby and I sat in turn down and took a small nasty hand. Upon his arrival, with astonishing look ''. I don't think a man had actually thought in his incarnation in any way. 

"I got a good sailor's hat for lunch, " said Daisy. 

"That's, as your mom wants to show you off. ", slackly.';  [ _ ] "You, you. You a tiny absolu. " 

"No," calmly admits child. "Aunt Jordan also got a tan. " 

"How do you look at mom? '' Daisy swung around so that Gatsby was facing. "Do you think that's good?" 

"What is Daddy?" 

Daisy said : "I don't look as if it is a dad." "It looks as if I. It's got my hair, and my facial form. " 

Daisy sat back on couch. In a squat, it took an inch forward and draught out its hand. 

Pammy, comm! " 

"Goodby, sour girl!" 

With a timid backward look, sanity-loving child was clinging to nanny's hand and was brought out to Tom just as four gin rucksacks - oh my! 

Gatsby took his drink. 

"It looks cool," said him, with a smirk. 

In long lusty swallows drank. 

"I'm a lil' n''t that I 'd say - i'll just say it. " It looks as if a fairly soon world is going to fall into sun--or wait 'til you wait -- it's just that it is changing -- all in all, this sun starts to warm up. 

"Coming out, I'd say to Gatsby : '' I want you to look around. " 

I sat on a balcony with '', with him.  On a sluggish and stagnant pond - sound, oblivion's small sail slowly givrd towards thailand  Gatsby's visions sprang to it, raising his hand and pointing across a bay. 

"I'm right across from you. " 

"So ya " 

Our oars swung out to rhymings and hot lawn and wilty moss of dog days along coast. Slowly, sluggishly and oblivion's wingings of a boat movin' against bluish cool limit of sky. Affront lay a sand-skunk d'octopus and abundant baptisms 

"It's sport for you," said Tom, nodding. "I'd want to go with him for about an hour. " 

In our dining-room, too drowsy, was a lunch and drunk with cold alk. 

"What will you do with us today?", Daisy said. "And on that day, and in thirty? 

"Don't go morbid," Jordan said. "It all starts again as it crisps up in fall. " 

"But it's so hot," Daisy insists, on a whimsy, "And all is so confusing. All go to town!" 

It fought against it, pounding its sanity in forms. 

"I'd known of making a barn out of an upright," Tom was saying to Gatsby, "but I'm tho's first man - who... " 

"Who wants to go to town?", Daisy insists. Gatsby's brows ran toward it "Ah, you look so cool!!" " 

, '' sassy -. With an inclination, sat down and glancing down at. 

"You always look so cool," admonishing. 

It had told him that, and Tom Buchanan saw. ... His mouth a bit sprang up and, looking at Gatsby and back at Daisy, as if's had just known it as an old man. 

"You acquaint  o'; s, m. " "You know that man-----" 

"All right," Tom quickly said, "I'm willing to go to town. It's all going to town. " 

, '' It got up, his brows still flashing against Gatsby and his husband No moving was. 

His tumult a bit shook. "What's going on, anyhow? : if you go to town, start. " 

His hand, tumbling with his utmost control of his own, brought to his lips his last glass of . Daisy's words got us to our footing and out on a blazing sand road. 

"Arn't that just going to go?" "Liking this, isn't it going to first allow any of us to smooch a cigar?" 

"All of us sat raucous through lunch. " 

"Oh, oh'm having fun!!" sprang from him. "It's too hot to fuss. " 

It didn't ask. 

"Hast it your own way," said, "Coming on, Jordan. " 

During this tumultuous day, I stood up and stood squawking with our footings a trio of guys.... A moon's sand arc flung in a cloudy sky. Gatsby sat down to talk, but did not stop until Tom roosting and facing him ad hoc. 

"Hasty you got your Stalls?" Gatsby shook his hand. 

"About a quart of an inch down, '' " 

"Oh. " 

A halt 

"I don't think I can go to town", Tom slain. "Womans - this notion --- ''. 

From an upstairs window, Daisy said : "Shall I drink? 

Tom said, "I'll buy a bit of whisky. " , ''. 

Gatsby sat rigidly in my hand: 

"I can't say anything in his room, old sport. " 

"It's got an indignity," I said. It's full of --- 

I sat back. 

"His mouth is full of cash," shook him. 

That was it. I hadn't thought of it in a whim. It was full of cash--that was that unfathomably charming charm that sprang up in it, jingling of it and cymbals'song of. High in a whirlpool, king's girl, is high. 

Tom slid out of a quart jar in tampons, and Daisy and Jordan put on small tight hats of gold cloth and carrying light caps on his arms. 

"Shall I all go in my car?" Gatsby sat down Upon waking up, a hot tan sat on his chair. "I should not omit it...." " 

"Is it a standard shift?" said Tom. 

"No. " 

"You took my coup , and I sat your car to town. " 

Gatsby's proposal was distancing. 

"I don't think it's much gas," adamant. 

"Plasma of gas," said Tom briskly. As a scout, dr. ? "And if it runs out, I can stop at a drug shop. Nowadays you can buy anything at a drug shop. " 

A halt following this ad hoc - omission. Daisy sat frowning at Tom and a distinctly unfamiliar and as if I had only known it in words, passing through Gatsby's mouth. 

"Coming on, Daisy," said Tom, stomping with his hand toward Gatsby's car. "I'll bring you in this circus wagon. " 

 ; ), but '' o n.? 

Nick and Jordan. In a coup d'état, you will follow  " 

Gatsby swung by, touching his coat with his hand. Jordan and Tom and I got into Gatsby's front car, Tom snuck a tad bit forward to push out unfamiliar shifts and shot out of sight.... 

Tom, "You saw that?" 

"What?" 

 I sat with him, thinking that Jordan and I must of known all along. 

"You think I'm a bit dumb, don't you?" "I am a bit of an, but occasionally - I'm '' having almost two sightings that say what to do Probably you don't think that, but ----" 

..., '' Instant Continuity shook him, pulling him back from a cliff. 

"I'm making a small inquiry of this man," continuod. "I could go if I'd known -----" 

"Do you say you'd  t h a m ; s? 

Confusing, a tad glancing at us. "What?" "An idyl? " 

"About Gatsby " 

"About Gatsby! No, I don't  I said I had a small study of his past. " 

"And you found that it was an Oxford man," said Jordan. 

"An Oxford man!", a man who was stoic. "Limits a harrowing ''. : - ...! " 

"It's still an Oxford man. " 

"Oxford, Spanish Sahara," snorts Tom cynically, "or so on. " 

Tom : "List. If you'd such a snob, why did you bring him to lunch?" Jordan crossly said. 

"Daisy 'd him to a party, savoring him as if - God knows who!" 

Now all of us with fading gin and a sigh of irritability, and conscious of it, droold for.... As Doctor M. H. Abrams's dingidity sprang into sight as I ran down a road, and I thought of Gatsby s caution about gas. ' 

"It's good to go to town," Tom said. 

Jordan snubs : "But it's right in a parking lot." "I don't want to stall in this baking warm. " 

Tom tastylically thrown on both braking and slid to an abrupt dusty stop at Wilson's sign. In just a instant, his occupant slid out of his building and glancing at his car. 

"Last's go with a bit of gas! ", clung to Tom. "What do you think that stops us for - to look at it?" 

"I'm sick," said Wilson without moving. "I was sick all day. " 

What is it?" 

"I'm all run down. " 

"Shall I'm doing? ", Tom sat up. "You snuck a good amount of sound on your tv. " 

Wilson, with a sigh and support of his doorway ; and fought hard to uncrack and untamp . '' In sunlight, his chin shook. ... 

"I didn't want to disrupt your lunch," said him. "But I do a good job of it and I was curious what you would do with your old car " 

Tom, "How do you find this?" "I bought it last night. " 

"It's a good odour," said Wilson, stifling his hand. 

"Lot to buy it?" 

Wilson shook a faintly grin. "No, but I could'm making a bit of cash on both.  " 

"What do you want to pay for all of ''? 

"I'm too long ago. I want to go away. My husband and I want to go to a'south. " 

"Your husband did!" said Tom, who was struck. 

"It's a topic that has sat on my mind for 10. " For a whirlwind, sat against his pump. "And now, if a woman wants to or not. I'm going to snatch it away. " 

With a flurry of dust, and with flashing of an waving hand  -. 

"What do I do to you?", Tom harshly said. 

"I just got up to a funny thing in my last two days," said Wilson. "That's why I want to go away. That's why I'm worrying about your car. " 

"What do I ow you?" 

"Dollar 20. " 

I had a bad tad of confusion at that point, and I hadn't known that his suspicions on Tom had not so far. Having found out that Virginia had a sort of living apart from him in an unknown world, his shock had him physically sick. I sat at him and also at Tom, who had just a short hors d';  - and it was to my mind that n''t was so profound in IQ or racial. As if i had not? Wilson was so sick that, unforgivably guilty--as if just a poor girl with child had got him. 

"I'll allow you that car," said Tom. "I'll post it tomorrow, '' " 

That locality was always numbingly disarming, so much so that now I sat down as if I had a warning - I was... Doctor M's giant ashhaps. H. Abrams sat vigil, but I admonishingly saw that from  zoos away'; oh... 

In a window that had swung out of sight, Virginia Wilson was staring down at his car. So impliqué in it was that it had no conscious mind of noticing, and as if a narcissism droops into it's brows, it slowly builds up. It was curiously familiar--it was a way of thinking that I had sat on many woman's tummy, but on Virginia Wilson ’  & - i. d ; n o u r : — – ”... until I saw that not on Tom but Jordan Marvin in 1996, who took him as his husband 

It is no confusion as if of a solitary mind, and Tom was hot whipping out of panic. His, until an hour ago, sanity and inviolacy slipping away from his control ; Instinct had him stoop on a cylindrical axis to surpass Daisy, and at fifty mph an hour i ran toward Astoria, until in sight of's prickly girdlings of high . 

"That big films around Fifti'; st. Fifty" is cool, said Jordan! "I'm a North and South - sailor, on tumultuous days... It has a lot of sassy about it - as if all kinds of funny fruits would fall into your hands. " 

"Suspicious" had a way of dissuading Tom, but's coup d'état was to stop  Daisy signalling us to draw. 

"Was 'n't going?", sprang. 

"How about films?" 

"It's so hot," sat a grin. "You go. Upon your arrival, you'll go around and join us. With an aplomb, its wit sprang up faintly : '' I'll smoot a man smoking two cigs " 

"It's not a fight, " Tom said irrationally. A truck in front of us blatantly sprang out! "You follow to south of PRC, front of Plaza. " 

Variously, if traffic was slowing him down 'til it was in sight. I think a man was afraid that it would dart him out of his mind and out. 

But not. And all of us took a tad - obviously, '' that it was... 

I do not know how long a long and tumultuous discussion was that of bringing us into that room, though i am '' sassy physically. During that harrowing commotion, my flint clung to my back as if it was running on damp horns - my pants... Originally, Daisy's proposal was that a fifth bathroom and cold baths should occupy us. It took on an illustrious form as if it was "a jolt of mints." " All of us said that it was a "crazy thought" - and all of' sat down to talk to an affably claustrophobic woman and thought or taint to think : 

It was big and stifling and, though it was four o'clock, allowing only a gust of hot shrubby. Daisy sat in a mirror and stood back to us, fixing hair. 

"It's a sluggish suit," said Jordan kindly, and laughing all. 

"Own a window," Daisy told Daisy without turning around. 

"It isn't a lot of. " 

"Wouldn't you call a jack if you could?" 

"It's a good thing not to worry about it," said Tom. "You crabbing about it is making it 10 - if.... " 

Upon unrolling, a glass of whisky was thrown out of his handbag and put it on. 

Gatsby said : "Why don't'; , old sport?" "You'd want to go to town. " 

A short sigh was. It slid from its nail and ran to floor, and Jordan said, "I'm sorry" - but this was not a laugh. 

"I'll pick it up," I said. 

"I'm got it Gatsby sat down on a chair, mumbling "Hum!" in an curious way. 

"That's a big part of yours, isn't it?" said Tom sharply. 

"What is?" 

"All this 'old sport  - a. Wo'd you pick that up?" 

"Now, Tom," said Daisy, turning around from a mirror. "If you want to spit on your own, I won't stay at this if you do '' Call up and buy a lollipop for mint. " 

As Tom took up his saxophon, bursting hot air into sound - acoustic chords of Franco's March of Mardi. 

"Imagining marrying anybody in this hot air!" Jordan dismally said. 

"Still--I was marrying in mid-July," Daisy said, "Mongolia in May! Who was it, Tom?" 

"Biloxi", ad ludovic soon said. 

"A man, Biloxi. 'Blocks' Biloxi, and that's a fact--and it was from Jordan, from. " 

"It took him into my room, '' Jordan adm. And, for a month or so. Daddy told him to go out. Daddy's day was slain, and '' In a whirlwind, saxophonist Xiaoqiu said : "It wasn't any link... " 

"I had to know a Bill Biloxi from Plains," I said, 

"That was his cousin. I know his family history's a long way away. I had an aluminum plow, which I am now using. " 

As a formality, music had dwindling down and now an long jubilation sprang up at window ; it was taszlom and finally by an impromptu clap of jazz as dancing was starting. 

"It's old," said Daisy. "If I was young, I'd climb and sway. " 

"Right now Biloxi," warns Jordan Tom : "Would you know him?" 

"Biloxi?", a focus. "I didn't know him. It was Daisy's ami. " 

"It was not ''. "I'd had him's adolfn't. In his own car, it sank. " 

"It said to him, ''.  Having grown up in Mongolia, it said ; At last, Asa Bird brought him around and sat down to ask if I had room for him. " 

Jordan grinds 

"It was probably bumming his way back to his car. I told him that I was in Kosciuszko's class. " 

Tom and I sat blankly at. 

"BilOxi?" 

"First of all, if you had a ----" 

Gatsby's foot shook a short, numbing tattoo, and William Gibson bluffs him 

By way, Mr. Gatsby, I know you'd a Oxford man. " 

"Not at all " 

"Oh, no. I know you go to Oxford " 

"Ya--I'm gonna go. " 

A halt. Tom's snarling and insulting - 

"You must ad hoc go to IRAQ. ' " 

A halt. A waitor snuck in and comming in with crappy mint and snow, but by his "Thank You" and soft closing of door's twilight. This was a colossal amount that was finally diluding. 

Gatsby said : "I told you that I was gonna go. 

"I know you, but I want to know if. " 

"It was in 19-ninth, I sat only for 5 months... That's why I can't actually say that I am an Oxford man. " 

Tom sat around looking for a mirror to look at. But all of us sat at Gatsby. 

"It was an opportunity that a Carlton '' s octavo  cio d'Arc & g ; t r. "You could go to any of u's schools. S. or China. " 

I was going to climb up and slap him on back. I had a part of that transformation of total faith in him, which I'd had in my past. 

Daisy sat up, smiling faintly, and ran to a chair! 

Tom's admonition was : "Own up, Tom." "And I'll bring you a mint - jolt. You won't look so stupid to you. Look at mint!" 

"Wait a, '' said Tom, "I want to ask Mr. Gatsby, a bit of an. " 

"Go on," Gatsby said pityably. 

"What kind of row do you try to bring anyhow in my room?" 

At last, it was out and Gatsby was happy. 

"It is not causing a row. Daisy sat drooling, glancing at both. "You'll causing a row. Having a tad bit of control  " 

"Sudo control!" Tom sprang into a laugh. "I m imagining that's to sit back and allow Mr? Nobody from no, to a woman. If that's what you can count out. Nowadays, many start by snoozing at family and family institutions, and thrash it all around and marry in a racial or black union. " 

Flushing with his impassion - irrational gibbish, a man sat on his last barracks of civilization. 

"It's a roosting of all of us," Jordan smirks 

"I know I'm not much popular. I don't do big party. I think you'd want to turn your family into a pigsty, if you want - in today's world. " 

Angry as I was, as was all of us, I would laugh at him if. So was a transition from prig to Prig. 

Gatsby said : "I'm going to say YOU, old sport ----" But Daisy sprang to his plan. 

"Don't! '', a smoky tyrant said. "Right now, I want to go back to you. Why don't all of us go back to school?" 

"That's a good thought. " I got up. Tom : Nobody wants a drink. " 

"I want to know what Mr. Gatsby has to say to. " 

"Your husband is not loving you," said Gatsby. "It's not a woman who hasn't lovin' you  I'm a tyrant. " 

"You must ain't crazy!" said Tom automatically 

Gatsby sprang to his foot, with a roar of joy. 

"No, sassy - ''.  ;? ) "I only had to marry you if I was poor and was adamant of waiting for. It was a tad o n ;, but in th  h'- s!... 

At this point, Jordan and I fought to go, but Tom and Gatsby insists with a concurring vigor to stay -- as though both had nothing to hid - and it would b o vicariously savor 's. 

"Sit down Daisy. Tom's vocal groping snoot droops for a psalm. ' "What's going on? I want to know about it all. " 

"I told you what was going on," said Gatsby. "Going on - for a fifth -- and you did not know. " 

Tom shook Daisy sharply. 

"You saw this guy for 5? 

Gatsby said : "It's not a sight. "No, if you can't... But both of us, old sport, lovin'u ;  you didn't know. I would laugh Vandals, but a laugh was not in his sight. "To think that you didn't know  " 

"Oh--that's all. Tom tapping his thick hands as if a chaplain sat back in his chair, 

"You'd think you ain't crazy! ", sprang him out. "I can't talk about what was going on in 2005, as I did not know Daisy - and I'll damn you if I find out how you got to within a pound of it. Until you brought your food to back door But all of that is a God Damn. Daisy was a big fan of my husband, and now is. " 

"No," said Gatsby shaking his hand. 

"I do, though. It's a bit of an irony that sassy thinks about it and knows what to do. "I sagaciously nod. "And what's also, Daisy I too. I go on a whirlwind, and I am always mad about it, but I always bring it back and in my soul. " 

Daisy said : "You'll go crazy!" 'Tis a cynical thing, and I shook my hand to my ; and with an octavo - drop – drooling : "Do you know why? " 

Gatsby sat and stood along with him. 

"Daisy, that's all about now". "It's not worth it. Just say to him - that youn't known him-- and it's all lost. " 

Blindly, a look at him? "Why,--how could I possibly do it? " 

"Youn't had him. " 

. With a sort of charm, Jordan and I sat down as if at last - and as though's hadn't thought of doing anything at all... But now it was. It was too soon. 

"I n'  ; '' I, with a visibly rabid lack of trust. 

"Not at Kapiolani?", Tom snarls. 

"No. " 

From suffocating chords drooping on hot clouds of air, muffling and acoustic. ... 

"Not that day I brought you down from a punch bowl to dry your sandals??" " Daisy?" 

"Don't '' " It was cold, but rancour from it was out. Gatsby sat down. "It's a jay, but his hand was shaking as if trying to light up. Brutally, a tadawny woman swung on tarpaulin and burnt match! 

"Oh, you want too much!", Gatsby said. "I now know you--isn't that too much? '', I can  ; til what's past. '', a sighing woman.  - "I did loving him - but i did too ;. " 

Gatsby's snouts and cloaks shut 

"You TOO...? '' 

"That's a liar," said Tom snarly. "I didn't know that tu'; . Why,--things that you won't know if Daisy and I do - things that no two of us can think about. " 

Gatsby's words stung physically. 

"I want to talk to Daisy only," appoints him "Now all is ----" 

"I can't say I'm Tom's only loving - I can only say in a pitiful way. " "It wouldn't';  it would n'' " 

"It wouldn't," said Tom 

It sat down to turn to husband. 

"As if it was important to you," said, 

"Of a doubt, it counts. From now on I'm going to focus on you. " 

"You don't know," Gatsby said, with a touch of panic. "You'll not worry about it if you. " 

"I'm not? ", Tom said, and shook his mouth. Now, if a man could afford to control his own. "Why?" 

"Daisy is out. " 

"Nonsanity. " 

"I am, though, with a symphony. " 

"It's not that I'm going away!" Tom shook his words on Gatsby. "No, not for a common swindling who'd tasty his ring if it had to put it on. " 

"I won't stand this!" said Daisy "Oh, hmmm! " 

Tom, who is you? "You'd a part of that bunch who hangs around with Jr. Japan -- that much I know. I'm doing a small inquiry into your affairs -- and tomorrow I will carry it on. " 

"You can suit up about that old sport. " Gatsby sat still. 

"I found out what your 'drug stalls'. " , '' Turning to us and quickly chatting. "His and this Japan bought a lot of shady draughtsmanship stalls in Chicago, and sold grain alcohol. That's a small stunt. I took him out for a bluffing if I saw him first and I wasn't far wrong. " 

"What about it?" said Gatsby pityably. "I think that Joanna Macy was not too proud to join in on it. " 

"And you put him in a lurch, didn 't you? You had him go to jail in U.  S. $1,000. God, you should acquaint Mary Wabnum about YOU! " 

"His coming to us was torn up. It was a lot of fun to pick up his old sport. " 

"Don't you call my 'old sport'! ", said Tom. Gatsby said nothing. "Mary Wabnum could also bring you up on gambling laws, but Japan had him shutting his mouth. " 

That unfamiliar, but familiar look was back in Gatsby's brow again. 

"That drug shop was just a small buck," said Tom slowly, "but now you know what Mary Wabnum's afraid to say about. " 

I sat at Daisy, who was groaning at Gatsby and his husband and at Jordan who had balancing a tiny but absorbing thing on its chin. I sat back to Gatsby, and I was struck by his look. - And this is said in all disdain for his baffling slur of his yard--as if a man had ''. For a bit, his body could just in that fantastic way. 

It was passing, and a wistful talk to Daisy sprang from him, saying that nothing was wrong with him. But with a word, it was drawing back and forth ; so sabotaging him fought on, and only that dinghy was fading away. Trying to touch what wasn 't tangibly, struggling unhappily and unflinchingly, towards that lost sound across room... 

Again, '' s urging to go ; 

"Put it on, Tom! I can't stand this! " 

Its frightfully snouts told that no - if any'; , i. 

"You two start on your own," said Tom. "In Mr. Gatsby's car " 

Now a tumultuous look at Tom, but with magnanimous scorn -. 

"Go on. It won't annoy you. I think a man knows that his squirmishy small flirtation is. " 

Without a word, sprang out, unavoidably, wasolating, as ghosts from our pity 

Tom sat up for a bit, and tucking in his handbag to wrap up an unsustainably - oh-so-loot of whisky! 

"Want any of this stuff? Nick?" 

I didn't ask. 

"Nick?", ad hoc. 

"What?" 

"Want any?" 

"No. I just forgot that today was my birthday. " 

I was thirty.  Until now, I sprang up a looming and infuriating road of an upcoming '' 

It was at 7 o'clock, as I got into a coup d'état with him and got to Long Island. Tom sat in a tumultuous ranting and chuckling, but his sound was as distant from Jordan and I as it was from local clamoring on footpaths or agitation of high sky. Human sympathy has its limits and it was just a ploy for us to slack off all its tragic points with city lights. Thirty-ninth of a dyad of isolation, thinning list of man to know, short-circus of passion, thin hair : But Jordan was with us, who was too smart to carry on a good-to-distant vision of aging - Daisy! As I sat on my coat, my wan tan was falling lazily against it's chin and fading away with a rumination of thirty. 

So, through cooling twilight.  

Young grizzly Midan Tahrir, who ran a café - joint in front of ashhaps. It had sat through a hot day until it drank out of it at 5 o'clock and found Slim Shady sick in his room - sick, as his own blond hair and shaking all around. Midan Tahrir told him to go to his room, but Wilson did not, stating that a lot of him would miss out if. During his symphony, a frightful ruckus burst out in front of him.... 

"I'm stuck in my husband's room," calmly said Wilson. "It's going to stay up until tomorrow, and so on. " 

Midan Tahrir was astonishing, having known for four yrs, and Wilson hadn t sunk so faintly. '' Typically, a man of this worn-out was sat on an ashtray in doorway and stood up to look at cars and cars passing along road.... Invariably, if a man sprang to him's door, in an uncomfortably bright way -. It was his husband and not his own 

So naturally, Midan Tahrir sought to find out what was going on, but Wilson wouldn't say a word--along with asking him to throw curious, suspicious looks at his visitor and to ask him what i'd had to do on particular days '' Just as a workman sat in his door bound for his company, Midan Tahrir took it as an opportunity to go away, with plans to bring him back. But a man did not. It was said '' forgot to, that's all   As a child, if i had not sat down to talk to Mrs. '' Wilson's scolding and loud vocals downstairs, upstairs - a. 

"Attack! ", a cry from him "Throw my down and slam down '', y'all! " 

A short and furious rushing out into dusk, waving hands and shouting ; until a man could walk out of his door. 

It didn't stop, or as it was aptly known - as a "dawn car" ; it sprang out of this tumultuous midst, was tragically wailing for'sacrificially.  It flung away around 0:0 : Midan Tahrir was not a savior of its color, but told his first cop that it was light. Almost a thousand yards away, Virginia Wilson sat down with its own car, which was going north and south. It hurls back and lays down in its thick, dark blood with dust. 

Midan Tahrir and this man first sat down, but had still torn a shirtwaist still damp with drippings and saw that it was swinging as if it had lost its limbs. It was not logical to wait for it to fall out ; Its mouth was wavy and rippling at all nooks, as though it had styrofoaming a bit in giving up that amazing vitality that had so long. 

During our stay, it was still a long way away from us.... 

Tom said : "Wrack!" "That's good. Wilson's at last a small company. " 

, but still without any plan to stop until, as a hushy grin stung at our front door, it was automatically put on braking '' 

"Just a look ''. " " 

Now I was conscious of a hollow, wailing sound that rang continuously from  stumbling out '' and - d. : ;, that sound which — as I got out of our coup à l' & b o u r i n t y! 

"It's a bit of bad tumult," said Tom. 

On tiptoids, a man swung up and plows into an octagon that was lit only by twilight in'swinging cord.' A harsh sound in his throat and with a vicious thrusting motion of his strong arms swung through. 

With a running murmur of apologizing, '' again ; it was.  Until I saw anything! Similarly, a symbiosis of incoming arrivals and Jordan and I was thrown in front of us. 

Virginia Wilson's body, as if it was a cold night, sat on work tiling by wall and Tom, with his back to us, was moving. Across from him stood a motorcyclist, who took down with much squabbling and coronation in his tiny book. At first I couldn't find it's origin of high, groaning words that sprang clamorously through a garb--but I saw Wilson standing with both hands on his chair, swinging back and forth and holding up doorposts. A man was talking to him in a low sound and, of varying occasions, trying to lay his hand on his back, but Wilsonn't sat nor saw. His hands would slowly drop from swinging light to a sluggish, clumsily lurch bluff by wall, and thrash back to light again - and inflicting his high harrowing call. 

O, my Ga-od! O, My Ga - O! 

Tom now shook his torso with a jolt and, glancing at his own brows. ... 

"M-a-v-o----" was said by a cop : " 

"No,-r--", "M-a-v-n-o----" 

"List '' to Tom! 

"r-r", o---- " 

"g----" 

"g-", as Tom's broad hand slid sharply on his arm. "What do you want, Falla?" 

"What was going on -- that's what I want to know!" 

"Auto hit it. Ins'antly slain " 

Tom's "Instantly taints," said. 

"I ran in a road. Son-of-a-bitch didn't stop a car at all. " 

"It was two cars," said Midan Tahrir, "a comin', a goin... 

"What is going on? ", apolicist shook his hands. 

"Goin' a way '' It--" His hand swung to a half-way point but halts half way and falls to him. "- --and ran out to N'York comin' right into it, thirty or forty mph an hour '' " 

"What is this town?", a sarcastically asks. 

"Hasn't got any '' " 

A sprightly clad only rock and roll stood by. 

"It was a tan car, '' said him.  " 

"Say 'n't?, a cop. 

"No, but my car 'n't roosting n forty. Going fifty, sixty - " 

"Com, 'til you do. Look out now. I want to find his alias. " 

Wilson must swaying a bit of words of this discussion in his doorway, for among his gasping claps '' oh. 

"You don't know what kind of car it was! I know which kind was it!" 

Watching Tom I saw a whirlwind of muscular back of his hamstrings stoop to his coat. Upon walking quickly to Wilson, standing in front of him shook him with his arms. 

"You'll want to pull on your own ", said with a soothing gruffly. 

Wilson's oars fall upon Tom, starting on his tibias and if Tom had not sank him upright. 

"List, " said Tom, shaking him a bit. "I just got from North and South to this a min ago. I brought you that coup  about which I'm talking. That car that I was driving today wasn't mys, do you know? I'm not having it all day. " 

Only Rock and Roll and i was a long way from him, but it caught up to him with tidbits of sound. 

"What's all that?", a snarling. 

"I'm a buddy of his Tom twilight, but had his hands firm on Wilson's body "It says :  I know that car ''. It was a car of color. " 

A dim inclination swung a cop to look suspiciously at Tom. 

"And what color is your car?" 

It's a black car, . " 

"From North and South straight," I said, 

A man who had a tad bit out of his driving hood confirms this, and turns away. 

"Now if you will allow that ---- I'll ---" 

Picking up Wilson as a doll, Tom took him to work, sat him down in his chair and got back. 

"If a sassy is coming and sits with him! ", wailing him. During this, a man sat watching as two of his most droopy cloaks glancing at l  o n'; m & c. f r id : Tom shut off his door on him and slid down a stairway, his wits avoiding it! As if passing in front of him, I sprang out : '' " 

With his authority arms blazing a path, with our hands slamming in hand's rushing doctor, who had just half an hour ago thrown for in fright. 

Tom slowly driv, until our torso was out-of-bounds. His foot slid down hard and a coup  ran along through night's night. In a short span I saw 'a low husky sob, and saw that thyrra was spilling down his chin. 

"God Damn Coward!", whimsy drank. "It didn't stop his car at all. " 

Buchanans's wing flitt abruptly toward us through dark rustling. Tom sat on a porch, looking up at 2nd floor. Two windows blooming with light amongst thorns - 

"Daisy's'; . " As I got out of my car, a look at him and I frankly. 

Nick, I ought to drop you in Maroc. Tonight, nothing can do us. " 

A shift had brought him to a halt, and it shook him with vigor. As I ran across moonlight sand to our porch, in a handful of brisk phrasing. 

"I'll call for a taxi to bring you back to your room, and you and Jordan should go in to cook and bring y'all up--if you want any! , '' -. ;... "Coming in " 

"No thanks. But I'd gladly buy you a taxi I'll wait out. " 

Jordan put his hand on my arm. 

"Won't you, Nick?" 

"No thanks. " 

I was a bit sick and I had to go on my own. But Jordan sat back for a bit. 

"It's only half past 9," said it. 

I'd damn if I would go in ; I had had too much of all for a day, and now that Jordan too. In my phrasing, a bit of this must of had sunk in ; i turn abruptly away and run up porch stairs in front of it. I sat down with my hands in my mouth for a bit until I was told by my tv that it was taking up in front of us and that cab was calling. I sat down slowly, a long way away from my car, hoping to wait by thorns. 

I hadn't go 20 yards, but Gatsby stood out of two shrubs on my path. By that point, I must a pity that I could think of nothing but his pink suit's luminosity. 

"What do you do?", I said? 

"Just standing, old sport. " 

That, I thought, was a shady occupation. For all I know, a man was going to rob '; I wouldn't of snobbishly look at his cloaks of "Japan's. " 

"Did you find any thorny road? ", a hunch said. 

"No. " 

, '' 

"Was sa? " 

"No. " 

I thought so, I told Daisy I did. It is a good thing that all shocks should occur on . It stood fairly good. " 

It was as if Daisy's action was all that was. 

"I got to Morocco by a road", sat on, "and put my car in my yard...." I don't think anybody saw us, but I can’t know. " 

I had him so much disdainful at this point that I didn't find it important to say to him that i was wrong. 

 Who was that woman? '', ad hoc. 

"His alias Wilson was. Its husband owns it. How did it occur to Satan?". 

"I thought I was trying to swing it ----", and now I thought. 

"Was Daisy driving?" 

"Ok," said, "but I'll say I was. You know, a woman who sat at us rushing out to us as if it was coming from north and south's. - It all sat in a half hour, but it mrs.  i thought that if you want to talk to us, you might think that you know us? Daisy first swung away from a woman in front of that car, and thnx for losing it. My hand sat on it, and if it had hit my hand instantly it was a shock. " 

"It snuck it out----" 

"Don't say, old sport ", a wink. "Anyhow--Daisy stood on it. I try to stop it, but it couldn't, so I swung on a braking. Dann slid into my lap and I ran on. 

"It will all work out tomorrow," said him. "I'm just going to wait and watch if a tad trying to annoy him about this morning. It's solitary in its room, and if any brutality is a ploy to turn it on again. " 

"I won't touch him," I said. "It's not thinking about him. " 

"I don't trust him, old sport. " 

"How long will you wait?" 

"All night if it is. Anyhow, until all go to a king. " 

A nirvana of a way of thinking sprang to mind. Matz found out that Daisy had a car. In it, a man might think :  '' I sat down to look at it : downstairs, a pair of bright windows and pink glow from Daisy's room. 

I said, "You wait," "I'll look if any sign of a commotion is. " 

I swam back along Grassland, softly trought and pipstrung up a row of stairs. Curtains in a drawing-room, and I sat down and saw that's room was blank. Crossing from our porch, which had drank on that night of Junidi 3 months prior, I found a small round of light which I thought was my pantry. Blind was drawn, but I found a rift at Sill 

Daisy and Tom sat on a tin of cold fritti n  h o u. c ; id :, with two gallons of liquor and two spoons of food? In his sassy wit, a man was glancing at him and his hand was falling on his own hand ; In a short span, sat up to him and nods. 

It wasn't happy, and nobody had snuck up on it - nor did it touch it -- but it was not unhappy at all. It had an unmistakably natural intimacy about it, and anybody would say that it was conspiring with. 

As I sat from my porch, I saw my taxi making its way along a dark road toward my habitation. Gatsby was waiting, if I had sat with him in my car. 

"Is it all calm up? ", ad hoc. 

"It's all calm. I z o n': "You'd  r o n'; t h a l. " 

 shook ''. 

"I want to wait until Daisy is to snoot. Good night, old sport. " 

Putting his hands in his coat sacks, a vigil shook him with anticipation and turning back to his scrutiny of his habitation as if my arrival had robbing my sanctity. ' So I sat away and stood him in moonlight - watching nothing. 

Chap. 8 

I couldn't stay all night, a fog horn was groaning continuously on Sound and I swung half-sick fro r o n u f ; t i. Towards dawn, I saw a taxi go up Gatsby's road and instantly I sat out of my room and drank--I thought that I had nothing to warn him about and that it was morning... 

Crossing his lawn, I saw that his front door was still obstructing and sat up against a chair in front of him. I was pounding or drowsy with it ; 

"Nothing has sunk", said him numbly. "I sat, and about four o'clock a m. d'; n  g : " 

His room had always had so much of an impact on my mind as it did that night, as I swam through its vast rooms to find cigars....  Curtains '', which sprang up as pavilions and flint to a tad of dark wall - I had thrown with an ominous splash upon hints of an ghostly piano. It was a smoky amount of dust all around, and room was musty as if it hadn't had for many days. I found a humidor on an unfamiliar floor with two dry tins. Throwing off, sat us smoking in a dark room. 

"You should go away," I said. It's almost a tidbit that tracing your car is. " 

"Go away NOW, old sport?" 

"Go to Atlantic City for a day or up to Austria. " 

It wouldn't think.  Obviously '', Daisy could not go away until a knowing what to do. At last, a man was clutching and I couldn't hold on to him to sway. 

It was this night that, with Dan Cody's spooky story of his youth was told to him that "Jay Gatsby" had blown up as glass against Tom s hard wrath and a long ruminating gimmick. I think, now, without a sigh of approval. But if Daisy did talk about : 

It was his first, if a girl was so. In various unassailably - ad hoc – positions, it had in contact with such individuals but always with indisputably unflinching strands. It found that it was thrilling. Initially, a small group of troops from Camp Taylor swung him out with him.... ;  It was amazing to him - a man who hadn't had so much fun in such an oh-so-amazing building! But what was giving it an air of indignation was that Daisy sat down -- it was as casual a thing to him as his camp was. It had a rippling lyricism about it, hints of rooms upstairs - bright and cool than most of its rooms ; of gay and radiant activity – that was not musty and laid away in lavandula, but still vibrant and vivid of shining motor cars of this yr's and of dancings. It also was a thrill for him, that many of Daisy's husbands had savory - it had grown in his sight. All around his room, a symphony of shadows and rumblings of still vivacious moods. 

But a colossal crash had him in Daisy's room. As glorious as Jay Gatsby'; t o  : a young man with no past, and at any point could slip out of his cloak. So, a lot of him sprang up. It took what it could, rapaciously and unscrupulously - until it took Wood still a night of Oct. '' s ; i took it for no right to touch it. 

, '' -. ; : I don't say that his phantoms had sold millions, but that's a conscious gift to Daisy. It had sanity - allowing him to think that it was from much of that stratum--that i was fully in oblivion of caring for him ; As a fact, it had no such facility - no comfort family was standing in front of him and if at whim of an impastossing govt. was blown.... 

But a man didn't disdain him and it did not turn out as it had thought. Probably, a grail had in mind - but now found that it had sworn to follow. It was known that Daisy was unusual, but it didn't know just how amazing a 'naughty' girl could.  It vanishing into its rich, full habitation '' and Gatsby - nothing. That was all. 

Two days adrift, it was Gatsby who was suffocating. Its porch was bright with bought luxury of star-shining, wicking of a sofa squats fashionably as it turns towards him and twirls his curious and charming mouth. It had caught a cold and it huskyd and draughtyd, and Gatsby was most notably cognizant of youth and mysticism that it imprisons and maintains, of glamor of many clothing and of Daisy. gilding as if lustrous, it was sassy and proud of its plight '' 

"I can't say to you how surprising I was to find out that, old sport. ' I admonishly sat down, hoping that if I'd throw it, I wouldn't do it. I did ; but it didn t '', as I was too drooling with him. I thought that I know a lot of things, as I did not know all of it. I was, way off my ambitions, drooling at my own wits a lot and i didn't know what to do. What was a good thing to do if I could do what I was going to. " 

On his last day of sat with Daisy in his arms for a long, silly. It was a cold fall day with flaming in room, and it was flushing with its chin. Now and now, sassy's moving and his arm a bit twilight ; and as soon as it was his dark shining hair. For a bit, it had sat tranquil as if to bury him for long parting that day. - In this month of loving, a pair of ninjas had '' snort - oh!? ; .... : ) & d r u g i b l c m y z p / 

In war, a lot of him did amazingly. Prior to going to front, a captain was in his position and gaining his majority and command of divisional - gun. During Carlton's frantically trying to find his way back to Oxford, a complication or miscommunication took him away. Now, a quality of numb panic was found in Daisy's books. It didn't know why a man could not go. It was sabotaging a world that was out of its control, and if it saw him and was at his midst and could know that it was all right. 

For Daisy was young and its artificial world was roosting of orchids and happy, joyful snobbish, and otorophons which tast d’a l’ ; id. : All night, saxophonists wailing at Victrola's "Hot Spotlight" as a thousand pairs of gold - nip talons whirling dust. In Ontario, always rooms throbbing with this low sassy flora whirl drooping twilight - oh! : . '' ; 

Through this twilight - world, Daisy swung again with a flurry of activity. At first drowsy at dawn's midst of dying orchids was again half an hour of dating with half p. m.s and chiffon of an oxford gown ; And all of that was crying for a. Now, if it was a right now - and that's an action--loving, financial, of unflinching practicality that was at hand. ; 

This thrust took form with Tom Buchanan's arrival in spring. It was a sassy bulky about his body and his position and Daisy was happy. Doubtably, a particular fight and oblivion was brought on. Gatsby was still at Oxford, and was a solitary. 

It was now dawn on Long Island and a lot of us sat downstairs, waking up and filling up with gray turning light, gold turning. A shadow of a twig slid abruptly across lilac, and ghostly birds clung to sing amongst bluish. A slow acoustic motion in air, almost no wind, was promising for cool & happy day. 

"I don't think that's a thing. Gatsby sat from a window and stood up and fought back. "You must not forgot, old sport, it was a lot of fun this morning. In a way that sprang up to fright, it said that I would look as if I was an obnoxious. And it was almost hardly known what was said. " 

gloomily sat down. 

"Of a doubt, if only for 'a whirlwind , it might - and I did so much for you? : 

Brutally, a curious racial tyranny struck him out: 

"In any situation, it was just a pity. '' " 

What could you think of that, if not to think in his vision of this affair a tad irrational? 

On his last army pay to Mongolia, Tom and Daisy got back from China. During his stay a month's stay in that city, walking through town sloughs in which twilight had commingling and going back to out-of-way spots to which it had run in its black car - Just as Daisy's room had always, to him, ''gay and phantasmagoric' ; s. o  h a t u r - i n y c : b & g l? m d / p x ] X Y % q! – j ’ z ° ) — k ­ f 

 ;, '' : -. —... Day-coach - now a snob was hot. UTFO sat down on a folding chair, and station flung away and backs of unfamiliar buildings moving by. Apoido out into a spring - land, in which oblivion scurvyd with occupants in it for. ;... who might against '' had to look down on that casual – road? 

Its track curving and now it was going away from sun, which, as it sank wardwards, in a kind of victory roosting utmost in this vanishing city. It had drawn its air As if to snatch only a wisp of air, his hand drooping frantically out to pick up an octavo - part of that spot that had  for him '' ; But now it was all going by too fast for his blurry vision, and a part of him had lost that part – of it —. ... 

It was 9 o'clock a.m., '' i sat down to finish our morning and go out on porch! It was a sharp shift in day and air had an autumn flavour.  Last of Gatsby's lords' ; a gardian, who was slain. 

"I'm going to drain my pool today, Mr. Gatsby Francis Parkman start falling fairly soon and that's it. " 

"Don't do it today," Gatsby said. I apologotically sat up to him. "You know, old sport, I'm not using that pool for a lot of months?" 

I saw my watch and stood up. 

"Two to my train : " 

I didn't want to go to city. I wasn't worth a good bit of work, but it was much - I didn t want Gatsby. I miss that train and a third, until I could go away. 

"I'll call you up," I finally said. 

"Do, old sport. " 

"I'll call you about noon. " 

Slowly, I sat down down a hill. 

"I think Daisy will call too. " - , '' a man anxiously sat down and thought that I'd confirm that. 

"I think so " 

"Goodby.  " 

I shook hands and I ran. Just as I sat in a pond, I thought about it. 

"It's a rotting crowd," I spit across lawn. "You'll do a damn good job of putting all of your dandy 'd up. " 

I'm always glad I said that. It was my only gratification to him, as I was disapproving of him from start to finish! First, il nods kindly, and thrashing into that radiant and caring grin, as if all of us sat in a cahoot on that fact. His stunning pink rag of a suit was dripping with bright color against sand, and I thought of night if I had first comming to his family's ANCHOR . Its lawn and its road had swung accross with hints of his corruption--and on that stairway had stood him, hiding his incorruptibility, as if waving him away. 

I thank him for his hospitality. For that, I and all of us - always thank him. 

I said, "Goodby. " "I had a good morning, Gatsby. " 

Up in town, I sat for a bit trying to list quotations on an infinitum of stock. Until I got drowsy in my swing-chair Just prior to noon, I was waking up on my t-shirt with a rash. It was Jordan Marvin 1996, and at this hour a lot of my calls rang up as if's was difficult to find in any way.'' Usually, a divot was coming out of an octagonal golf link, but this morning it was harsh and dry as if it had sunk. 

"I'm out of Daisy's room," said. "I'm at Arnold and I'll go down to Southampton this morning. " 

Probably it had a tactful act to go to Daisy's room, but my act of indignation and my nay-saying sat rigid. 

Last night, you didn't look so good to  " 

"How could it? 

For a whirlwind. , '' 

"I want you... " 

"I want to know you too. " 

"Supposing that I don't go to Southampton and go into town today?" 

"No--I don't think this is a day. " 

"Such a good. " 

"It's a tad hard to do this morning. Various----" 

For a long whirlwind of talking, it was abruptly not talking again. I don't know which of us hung up with a sharp click, but I know I didn'  ;. I couldn't talk to it that day across a tai chi, if I hadn t sat down in this world again. 

I a call Gatsby's, but it was busy. I fought four occasions, and finally a disgruntling mid-warrior said that it was long-standing from Lowlands'. Taking out my day-plan, I drawn a small round around my 3-fifty train. I sat back in my chair and drank and thought. It was just noon. 

As I sat on train that morning, I had cross-trunk my ashhaps involuntaryly to. I think that all day a curious crowd around, with small boys looking for dark spots in dust and an garrulous man who had told him what was going on until it was vanishing to him as if it could not - and Virginia Wilson's tragic work was lost. Now I want to go back a bit and say what was going on at our car park, following that night. 

It had difficulty in locating John Quincy Adams, who was a sailor. That night, if it had stunk, it must ain't bluff '' ; . Upon a convincing of this, sat in shock as if that was an inadmissibility part of it. In his car, a kind or curious man took it and snuck it out of his body in. 

Until long following midnight, a changing crowd swung up against front of car park as Slim Shady twirls back and forth on couch. For a bit, it was obfuscating and all who snuck in to look through it. Finally, a man said it was an affront and closing his door Midan Tahrir and a handful of scouts with him - first 4 or 5 '' or two. Midan Tahrir had to ask for his last visitor to wait a half hour for him to go back to his own spot and drank  s. Until dawn, a man sat with Wilson with him. 

About 3 o'clock, Wilson's quality of incohobly snorting was changing - a whirlwind of him dwindling and starting to talk about his car. , '' a man told him that his way of finding out was to find out who was in that car.? ; &... i blurt out : ’’ -! 

But as if a man said this, in his groaning and flinching sigh 'oh, my God! Midan Tahrir had a clumsy try to distract him 

Nicky whack : "How long has it sat with you? How long has your marital stay?" 

"Two-twist's. " 

Nicky whack, sit still - I had a '' Did you always had any kids?" 

To Midan Tahrir thudging against a dull light, hard brown snouts thoudn't. It always sounds to him as if's car was going to rip along road, which hadn t stop for just two hours! It didn't fit him to go into a parking lot, as work was staining on top of it. So sat uncomfortably around's work station--and had known all of that in it by morning - and was sitting with Wilson trying to calm him down. 

Nicky whack - Hasta you got a church to which you go occasionally? Possibly if you hadn't sat for long? I could call up church and ask'sainty' to bring him and talk to you? 

"Don't fit any. " 

Nicky whack, you ought to go to a church for such days. You must go to church a tad. Didn't you marry in a church? Didn't you marry in a church? 

"That was a long ago " 

For a tad bit, his bluffing shook his rhythm - for 'tilt'! That half knowing, half baffling look thralls back into his fading brows, 

"Look in that box, '' said him pointing at it. 

"Which draught?" 

"That sock - that. " 

Midan Tahrir swung his hand to his trough. In it was nothing but a small costly dog's t-shirt, which was hand-knit and sash. It was a tad old. 

"This?", admonishing him. 

Wilson sat up and nods. 

"I found it last night. I was trying to say about it, but I did know it was funny. " 

"You don't want to buy it? " 

"It had a wrap in t-shirt on its back. " 

Midan Tahrir didn't find anything odd in that and, in doing so, Wilson told him a tad - oh! But imaginably Wilson had, from Virginia's past, sprang to mind a bit of this - if not all-in-all. :  Oh, my God!'' ; r & b / c ] 

"Now, a man kills him," said Wilson. His mouth slams abruptly out. 

"Who did?" 

"I can find out a way. " 

Nicky whack is morbid, '' said his pal. "This has a strain to you and you don't know what you'll say. You'd probably try and sit still till morning. " 

"It was a homicidal man. " 

"It was an injury, Nicky whack. " 

Wilson shook his hat. His vision narrows and his mouth widst slightly with a spooky "Hm!" 

"I know," ad hoc said, " I'm liars and I don't think any harm to NObody. But if I find out anything I know it." It was man in that car. It ran out to talk to him and would not stop. " 

Midan Tahrir had also saw this, but it hadn't struck him that it was of any kind.  Mr. Wilson had run away from husband, not trying to stop a particular car. 

"How could a woman of such was?" 

"It's a mighty woman," said Wilson, as if that sat in front of it. "Ah-h - H----" 

And Midan Tahrir stood in his hand, twisting a sling. 

"Maybly you got a pal that I could call Nicky whack for?" 

This was a forlorn wish, almost as if Wilson had no companion : irrational of him for his husband. Upon noticing a shift in his room, by window sprinkling of bluish, was glad to find that dawn wasn't far off. About 5 o'clock it was blazing to snap off light. 

Wilson's glaucoma talons swung out to ashhaws in which small gray clouds took on a fantastic form, and clung to this and that in faint dawn wind. 

"I sat down to talk to it," said a long grin, '' "I told it that I might fool, but it could not fool God. I took it to a window--" With an inclination, il got up and sat down and stood up against it. "-and I said : 'God knows what y'all' ; you know what you ! You may fool, but you can't fool God! " 

With a shock, Midan Tahrir saw him looking at Doctor M's vision. H. Abrams, which had just spout blond and colossal of dissolving night. 

"God saw all," said Wilson. 

Midan Tahrir said : "That's an ad... " A bit of a thing had him turn away from window and look back into room. But Wilson stood a long way, his chin numbing to twilight in front of his window. 

By six o'clock Midan Tahrir was worn out and thankful for a car's sound. It was a watchman who had said to go back that night, so that for 3 hr.  Cooking '' was for him and that man who drank with him ; Wilson was now calm and Midan Tahrir sat down to a nap ; waking four hours and hurling back to his car park, Wilson wasn 't. 

His motions--which was always on foot - was tracing to Port Kam-ap and again to Gad's Hill, a sandwich that was not snuck in his mouth and an oat '' Probably sluggish and walking slowly, for Gad's Hill didn't find him until noon. So far, no difficulty was in accounting for his's - boys who saw a man "acting sort of crazy" and motorists at whom illuminati sat oddly from. , '' sassofortunatly a tyrannical linguist. On a basis of what Midan Tahrir said, that's "a way of finding out... ", it was said that it sprang to him to go from car to car. On a contrasting hand, no man who had sat on him's door - and probably had an idyllic, dilutionary way to find out what. By half past two, a man was in Morocco. During his visit '' o r  s : - l ; n & m i / b? c u d! So by that point, Gatsby had known  '' 

At two o'clock Gatsby put on his bathing suit and snuck out word with liar that if a word was brought to him at pool. During his stay at his car park, a pyjama was thrown up for him that had amusing his visitors'; s. -  , '' sassy said : - and this was a bit odd. 

Gatsby snuck up on a Matrix, and got to start swimming. Upon stopping and shifting it a bit, and his cab sat him to ask him if it was ok to assist him, but hhook and hid amongst thorns. 

No call-in, but if it was a snooty boy's night - till four o'clock--until long ago. I think that Gatsby did not think it would occur, and may not now worry. If that was so, a man must had thought that his old warm world had lost him and paid for living too long with'singing. Through scary limbs, a man must look up at an unfamiliar sky and snoots as if to find what abominably grotish thing is and how raw sunlight was on dwindling grass A world that is a bit fictitious, without talisman. Poor ghosts sprang up as if by air and draught fortuitously about As if a giant gliding into his path, through thorns : 

, '' Its a prtiodo : - i r oh! ; c.? I sat at Gatsby's front door from train station and my rushing anxiously up a stairway was first thing to alarm anybody. But that was a fact, and I trust. With hardly a word said, four of us - limo cab / mourning & gastronomy'; s and i – hurrah down to pool. 

It was a faint, almost symphony of flow as it took its way toward draining from london. With small rumblings, which hardly sat in shadows of rays, a lagging matt movably tad dunk. A small wind gust that hardly sprang to a halt on its uncannily - rood, causing it to disturb with its clumsy. A touch of a symbiosis of plants slowly roiling it, tracing, as if on compass's thigh - octagon :. ; ... 

It was just as Gatsby and Wilson's body was a tad far off in Grass, and Holocaust was full. 

Chap. 9 

I think of that day, and that night and day, only as a continuous drill of politicos and photographs and journalists in and out Gatsby's front door. A string swung across and by it a policing oblivious to curious, but small boys soon found that it could pass through my yard and it was always tassling of prickly. Possibly a sassy - man, if you can call it that : ''.  

Most of this information was a horror - gross, circumstantial, anxious and untruthful As Midan Tahrir's oath brought to light Wilson s suspicions of his husband '', I thought that in a racy pasquinad - but John Quincy Adams, who could say anything, did not say any word. It also had a surprising amount of humour about it - sat down in front of that kindly brow and said that Gatsby hadn 't roosting, that it was totally happy with its husband ; that no mutilation was thrown to it by  It was so convincing that it clung to it and drank into its hand, as if it was just a hint that was too much. Wilson was thus a man "disappointing by pain" to stay in its most basic form And it sat. 

But all this part of it was distant and unimportant. I found on Gatsby's, and on my own. From day I rang to Morocco, all of his claims about him and all practical. At first I was stoic and numb, but as a man lay in his room and didn't talk or walk or talk hour upon hour - it givrd upon him that I'm oblivious to that. No--no -- no- ;  No! : I had that big & irrational passion to which all has an ambiguous right? 

I sat Daisy half an hour ad hoc, calling him instinctually and without flinching. But that morning, a woman and Tom had go away and had rucksacks. 

"No ad? " 

"No. " 

"Say if 'til? 

"No. " 

"Any way I can find out how?" 

"I don't know. Can't say. " 

I had a wish to find for him. I want to go into his room and calm him down : "I'll ring for you Gatsby. Don't worry. Just trust, and I'll find a guy for you ----" 

Jr. Japan's nom wasn't in a phono book. Luckily, I had his'story' on Broadway and I rang information. Until I got to my id, it was a long way off and nobody sat down to call it! 

"Will you ring again?" 

"I'm rung to a trio of. " 

It is important. " 

"Sorry. I'm afraid that nobody's around. " 

I sat back in a drawing room and thought for an instant that it was all this official visitors, all of whom ludicrous. But as a group of draughtsmans drawn back and sat Gatsby with nary brows, his proclamation in my brain. 

"Look, old sport, you got to find a man for you. You'll try hard. I can't go through this with my own. " 

Initially, a snob was starting to ask if I was going to go upstairs and looking hastily through all of his untidy parts - I hadn't told him at all that his mom and dad. But nothing was missing--only Dan Cody's portrait, a sign of shaky history. 

I sat in North and South on Monday morning with a mail to Japan, asking for information and urging him to go out on train. That was a tad obnoxious if I sat down. I was'stupid' that it would start, as if I'd know that Daisy would bring a liason from noon - butn't. Japan, no man abutts policing and photography and journalists. As Japan brought back its solution, I had a sigh of disdain for Gatsby and I against it all. 

_Dom, Carraway : This has to my mind hardly had a shock of any kind. Such a mad act as that man did should bring us to think. I can not go down now, as I am bound up in this thing now and not in that. If you know anything I can do a tad too soon, I will inform you in an account of Cavan. I hardly know what I am if I find out about a thing as this, and am totally blown down and out 

Yours truly  Yr Japan '' 

and hasty additions : 

_It is not known about his family at all. _  

I thought that this would last Daisy if it rang that morning and Vassar said Chicago was calling. But as a man's, thin and far away.  

Kipp says : " 

"No? " was unfamiliar, but 

Isn't it a bit of an irony? - 

"It hasn't had any wiring. " 

"Young Park is in a tumultuous situation," said him. "It took him up, '' said a man.  A circular from North and South, giving'; s. What do you know about that, huh? You can't know in this hick town ----" 

"Hi! " I sat still. "Look--this is not Mr. Gatsby Mr. Gatsby is slain " 

On a long halt on slack, '' was obstructing.  Dann a quick squawk was thrown, as ''. 

I think it was on third day that a fromm sign-in télégram from an town in Afghanistan. It said only that a stowaway was going to go to his room and to wait for his arrival. 

It was Gatsby's dad, a solitary old man who was hurt and distraught and bound up in an oxford - long u-styrofoam against warm autumn day. His hands continuously sprang into action, and as I took his bag and hat from his hands a tad biting him so constantly at his floppy gray hair that I had difficulty in pulling it off his coat. I was on a point of collapsing, so I took him into my music room and had him sit down as I sat him down for food. But a tad of him wouldn't drink, and his glass of milk sprang from his shaking hand 

"I saw it in Chicago's journal," said, " It was all in Chicago's daily. I got right away. " 

"I didn't know how to contact you. " 

His vision, which saw nothing, swung in and out of this room. 

"It was a mad man," said. "It must of had mad. " 

"Wouldn't you want a cup of java?" I shook him. 

"I don't want anything. I'm all right now, Mr. ----" 

"Carraway " 

"I'm all right now. What Jimmy got?" 

I took him into his drawing room, in which his son lay. I sat down in it ; Y'know, a group of small boys had sprung up and sat down looking up into this hall. As I said that I had found who was arriving'; y  - 

Mr. Gatz, his mouth ajar, sat down and drank slightly ; his brows flung out of it and unpunctual. It had a ghastly shock quality to it, and if now for first symphony and saw hilarity and glory of hall and grand rooms that sprung out of it into various rooms his sorrow comading with an affliction. I took him upstairs to a room, whittling him off his coat and hat, I told him that all plans had sat 'til his arrival. 

"I didn't know what you'd want, Mr. Gatsby----" 

"Gatz is my alias. " 

"-Mr. Gatz I thought you might want to carry out a body north -. " 

It shook his brain. 

"Jimmy always savors it down in Plymouth a lot. Up to his position in Plymouth Was ya a boy? --?" 

"It was a good day for us. " 

"His was a big past, you know. It was only a young man, but had lots of brain. " 

, ''. ; - : – —... 

"If a man had 'd of slain, it would h ; . A man as Paulin. It had a part to play in building up country. " 

"That's right," I said, uncomfortably. 

Upon fumbling at a swarovski mask, trying to rip it off of it and lay down stiffly - was instantly numb. 

That night a frightful man sat up and said to know who I was to avoid giving him his. 

"This is Mr. Carraway," I said. 

"Oh--", ah! -  Collins : " 

I was also glad for that, for Gatsby's sacrificial crucifixion was a gift. I didn't want it to draw a crowd of tourists and snafussy, so I'd also phony-soddly rang up if I would. It was hard to find. 

"Morning's burial is," I said. "Through o'clock, 'til now... I wish you would say to anybody who'd want to. " 

"Oh, I will," shook him out hastily. "Of all probability, I'm not going to visit anybody ; but if I do. " 

His sound was suspicious, but 

"Of utmost, you'll also'm a. " 

"I'll try ''. What I call up is ----" 

"Wait a min, '' I said "How about saying you'll go?" 

"It's a fact that I'm staying in Sri Lanka with'; -, and that .... In fact, a sort of picnic is. Of all, I'll do my utmost to stay away. " 

I yawn a non-stop 'Huh!', and I must had him spouting : ... 

"What I call up about was a pair of boots that I sat in. I'm curious if it's too much of a thorny thing for us to go on with it. You can't miss it, and I'm sort of humbling without's. My adm. is B. F. ----" 

I didn't acquit. I hung up, and I couldn '; t. 

Following that, I had a'shaming' for Gatsby--a man to whom I rang said that it had got what it was. But that was my fault, for a man of whom Gatsby snobbly drank on gallows . I should of known if not to call him ; 

On my way to North and South for Jr. Japan; I couldn't look to find him in any way. On urging of a lift boy, my door that I swistika - Holding Company. '' At first it didn't look as if anybody was in it? But as I had sung in vain's "Hallo", a fight bluffs. A kindly hurst is now coming out at an indoor door and I'm looking at it with black oblivion. 

"Nobody is in," said it. "Mr. Japan has sunk to Chicago. " 

First part of this was obviously untruth, for a snooty was starting to whirl in's "Rosary" ; 

"Put Mr. Carraway wants to watch him. " 

"I can't bring him back from Chicago, can I?" 

At this point a sound, unmistakably Japan's : "1992b!! ", is sung from on-off. 

"Load your alias on, '' sassy said. "I'll pass it on to him if's back " 

"But I know, ''.  " 

It took a walk towards my hand and slid indignantly up and down. 

"You young guys think you can push your way into this at any point, " scolding. "It's sick of us. If I say's in Chicago, it is in ChiCAgo " 

I said Gatsby. 

"Oh-h! ", sat up again. "Will you just--what was thou? " 

. In a clip, Jr. Japan stood in a solitary doorway, holding both hands. In a stoic way, I was drawn into his room and said that it was sad for all of us. And if I did not ask him I would rob him of my cigar. 

"My mind backs to how I first saw him," said. "A young major just out of army, and clad in a coat of arms. It got in war." It was so hard up that it had to carry on with his uniform, as it couldn't buy any normal clothing. I saw him first, as Winston Churchill was coming into his poolroom at Forty-third St. and asking for work. For a handful of days, it hadn't drank anything. 'Coming on, I had lunch with you.' In half an hour, a man sat on food worth four dollars. " 

"Did you start him in a company?" I sat down 

"Start him!" I told him " 

"Oh,  " 

"I brought him up from nothing, right out of a gulp. I saw right away that a good-looking, manly young man was, and as soon as I told him that I was an Oggsford I sat down to know I could do good with him. I got him to join up in n11 and sat up high. Right off, a bit of work for smt. In all of us, so thick as that - ''.  " 

I thought that if in 1919, this company had also had a transaction in World's. 

"Now, '' i said.  "You was his narrator, so I know that you will want to go to his burial this morning. " 

"I'd want to go. " 

"Good, now. " 

His hair in his nostrils swung slightly, and as if shaking his chin was a tad ludicrous -. 

"I can't do it -- I can not mix it up". 

"It's nothing to mix up. It's all now a pity. " 

"If a man is shot, I don't want to mix it in any way. I stay out As a young man, it wasn 't - if any of my familiars sank, I stuck to it until I got it. You may think that's sassy, but I say it--to thaw. " 

I saw that, for his own admonition.  I stood up! 

"Arn't you a campus man?", snarling. 

For a bit, I thought that was going to imply that if I had shook my hand.  : 

"Last us admonish to show our amiability for samantha's, if h i n' ; t u r  c & q : - "It is now my own compass, if I allow all of it to go. " 

As I sat in his workroom, it had turn dark and I got back to Morocco in a rainstorm. I was going to find Mr. Gatz scurrying up and down in a joyous hall. His pity in his son and in son's things was growing constantly, and now had a thing to show. 

"Jimmy has a photo of this. With his tumbling hands, a man took out his cash. "Look! " 

It was a photograph of, cracks and dirty with many hands. Angryly, I sat down with him to point out to him all of this. "Look! Look!", and I sought admiration from my hands. It had shown him so much so that I think it was now to him a lot frank, not just to his. 

"Jimmy sat it down to my. I think it's a smooch. It shows up good. " 

"It is good. Had you saw him last night?" 

"It was a two-and-a-half yrs ago that I was coming out to visit him, and I bought my now -. Of utmost, it was split up a tad - '' ; . In front of him, it was a big past. And if a victory has had him, it was with. " 

, ''. ; a tad unwilling to put it away, holding it in my hand for an hour or so...? Apoi, a rag - old copy of an old book : "Hopalong Cassidy. " 

"Look, this is a book that had him as boy's. It just shows you. " 

At back, a squid ooty ruckus - . On a last fly - liaf, was scribbling's word  & –. ; and id : 12th August 1906 And... 

Rip from. 6. 00 A M. Dumbstack and wall-scaling - 6. 15-6 30 " Study '' ; . 7 15-8 15 " Work 8 30-4 30 P M MLB and sports. 4 30-5 00 " Pray élocution, squamish and how to attain it 5 00-6 00 " Study of utiyints. 7 00-9 00 " 

GROUP OF DISCUSSIONS. 

No wasting your shady days or [a word, unmistakably] No smoking or chugging Bath a tad d'ai n  h? 00 [crossing out] $3 00 % a wk. 

"I found this book by a whim," said old man. "It just shows you, don't it?" 

"It just shows you. " 

"Jimmy was bound to win. Always had a solution such as that. Do you think you can 't do that? I told him that I was a hog, and I fought him. " 

Initially, I sat in a small room with him and thought that I wasn't going to go to my room. I think a lot of him thought that I should copy my own list. 

A bit adrift from Flushing, an lutarchiac was arriving and I sat involuntarily to look out of windows for cars. So did Gatsby's dad. And as thy lords sat down and brought in and stood anxiously in a hall, his vision drooping ; and in an anxious numbing way.  I sat him at his watch, so I took him away and told him to wait for half an hour. But it was not of any good. Nobody sat down. 

About 5 o'clock, our convoy of 3 cars - first a motor-sounding, horribly black and rainy, and now Mr. Gatz and I in limo, and a tad lira, four - 5 sailor and postman from Morocco in gatsby's station wagon. All dry to skin... As I was walking through a doorway into  savannah '', i rabidly obstructing my car and thrashing out of mud... I sat around looking around. It was a man with owl-smooth hats, whom I had found admiring Gatsby's books in my library on oct. 

I'd always known him from that point. I don't know how a man had known about his homily, or if it was his own. Rain sprang down his thick glass, and a man took it off and wiping it down to watch Gatsby's guardian canvas unroll. 

I also thought about Gatsby for a bit, but it was too far away and I could only think without rassoidity that Daisy hadn't snuck in to say 'I'm sorry. Dimly I saw a man murmur, '' oh lord!  ; b & c. 

Thru rain, quickly straggling down to cars. Owl-Owls sat down by my door. 

"I couldn't find my way to my room". 

"Nobody could 't. " 

"Go on! ", shook him. "Why, my God, '' sprang up! . " 

It took off his rims and swabd it out and in. 

"A poor son-of-a-bitch," a man said. 

A of my most vivid thoughts is of coming back from school at Christmas, and ad hoc. . '', if a snob would go far than Chicago at six o'clock on an old dim Union Station - with tasslings of Chicago – catching up into his own holiday gays to bid him an agony? I think of girls'fur coats from Miss This or That, and a sprinkling of froth and hands whirling in front of us catching sight of old companions and matchings of invitations : "Arn't you going to Ordways?" and long horns in our hand. And lastly, skunky black cars of Chicago, postconflict and St. Paul Railroad looking as happy as Christmas on its tracks, just a tad. 

As our snow sprang out into a snowy night and was tumbling against our windows, and dim lights of small Wisconsin stations moving by, an abrupt wild fracas sprung up in our air. In sassy draughts of it, amidst cold UTFOs walking back from lunch, for an hour unstoppably conscious of our idyll with this country. Upon slipping back into it again 

That's my mid-warrior - not hay or savannahs or lost towns of my youth, but my thrilling, back-to-back trains and road lamps and horns in a frosty dark and shadows of holly wands thrown on snow. I am part of that, a bit stoic with that sound of long nights. A tad comfort from growing up in Carraway's hut in an urban city in which housing is still known by family naming - dinghy I now know that this was a story of Ogalala, following all--Tom and Gatsby, Daisy and Jordan and I - who had all ogalas in common '' ; s.  

Although I was most curious about Plymouth, although I am most cognizant of its goodwill in comparison to sluggish, sprawling, abyssing townsn't far from Ohio, with its infinitum of inquisitions which only taint young and old - it had always for my own quality of distortion Morocco particularly still shows up in my fantasias. I saw it as a night by U. S. A-10 " Warthogs: a thousand buildings, both crouching and groovy, clumsily stooping in an illusory sky and an impish moon. In front of him, four sassy man in turbans walk with a stray on which lays an drunk woman in an oxford. Its hand, which is dangling from a cliff, glows with diamonds. Gravly, in a'sanity' - it turns out : ... But no-man knows a woman's nick, and no - man is. 

Following Gatsby's passing, Plymouth was a ghostly haunt for my mind. It was dissipating out of my vision - ability to fix it So I sat down to go back to my family's hut, a bit of rusty laundry. I was blown out of my room by britain - blazing! 

I had a thing to do, an awkward, uncomfortably awkward thing that could  if not'; s. But I did not want to go back and not just trust that obliging and idyll, but to wash away my junk. I saw Jordan Marvin in 1996 and sat down to talk and talk about what was going on with us and what had to follow, and I lay in a big chair. 

It was to play golf, and I think I was thinking that a good illustration sat on it ; his chin was up slightly, jauntily dripping with hair of an autumn  talons ''. Its brows had as much brown tint as that of its numbing hand on? As soon as I had sat down, a woman said without any complication. I doubt that, though's a lot of ; s, if. For just a short instant, I thought if I wasn't making any mishaps and quickly thought about it all again and got up to say 'no' to. 

"You did , '' said Jordan briskly. "You tasty m'' ; I shook you off on tho. I don't think about you now, but it was a symbiosis of my own and I was dizzy. " 

Shook hands. 

"Oh, and do you know ---- a discussion that I had about driving's car?" 

"Why - not just " 

"You said that a bad driving was only sanitary until, didn't I?? I did. It was illogical from my part to say such an ill-thought - I thought you a bit of an oblivious, straight-talking. I thought it was your stout. " 

I said : "I'm thirty. "I'm 5 too old to liar and call it honor " 

It didn't ask. Angry, and half-loving with it and awfully sorry, I turn away 

I saw Tom Buchanan in a mid-morning oct. - In his ad hoc way, I was walking his hands away from his body as if to fight off stifling intrusion. His body was moving sharply in this and that spot, adapting to his untidy visions : Just as I sat down to avoid him, a young man stood up and frowns into windows of an art shop. Brutally, I saw him and ran back with his hand out. 

Nick, what is it about shaking hands? 

"No. You know what I think of you. " 

"You'd think you ain't crazy, Nick," said quickly. "Crazy as a harrow. I don't know what is going on with you. " 

"Tom," I ask, "what did you say to Wilson that day?" 

Without a word, sat down and I did know that I had rightly thought about missing hours. I was starting to turn away, but it took him a foot and snuck my arm. 

"I told him truth," said . "His door snuck up, as I was about to go out, and I told him that I wasn't in. '' If I hadn't told him who owns a car, I would kill him. His hand was on a rifling gun in his hand - --- ''.  ;, if at all : "What if I told him that this was coming to him? Just as if in Daisy's hat, a dusty man thrown dust into your brow. But it was tough  Virginia ran, as if you'd run a dog's car. " 

I could not say anything, but it was a singular fact that it wasn  ''. 

"And if you think that I didn't had my part of pain - look at this, I sat down on that flat and saw that damn box of dog biscuits sitting on it.... By God it was awful ----" 

I could not forgiving him or liking him, but I saw that what a man did to him was totally justifié. It was all a bit numb and confusing. It was a clumsy bunch, Tom and Daisy--scratch up things and animals and finally squat out back into it or its vast ill-will, or what it was that taint's - that it. ;... and liquify it up!  

I shook hands with him, it was silly not to do it. I was instantly as though talking to a child , ''. ; a cuff button--or possibly only two of my provincial squawks - oh!? 

Gatsby's Haus was still full as I sat--grass on his lawn had grown as long as my. Possibly it was Daisy and Gatsby who took a taxi into Plymouth's oasis without stopping and pointing it out, and possibly it had all his own story. I didn't want to know it, and avoiding him as I got off train. 

I sat in North and South my Saturday nights, as his glitzy, dazzling partying was so vividly with him that I could still faint and insinuating from his yard and cars going up and down his road. A night ago, I saw a car that was going through and saw its lights stop at his front stairs. But I didn't look. Probably it was a final visitor who had sat away at oblivion and didn't know that this party was about. 

On my last night, with my trunk packing and my car sold to agronomist, I was again looking at that colossal incongruity of an in-laws. On slack stairs, an obnoxious word, scrawling with a bit of brick, stood out in moonlight - and I did it, drawing my foot raspingly along. I ran down and sat on a strand.... 

Most of a gully sands was now shut down and hardly any lights, apart from that shadowy, moving glow of an iroquois. And as a moon sprang up, nirvana's illustrious habitations starting to fall away until gradually I was conscious of this old island that flown for Dutch sailors -.  : ; ] Its vanquishing limbs, that had built way for Gatsby's room, had spouting in murmurs for a last and most amazing of all human thoughts. A transitory idyll compulsion must hold man  n' ; t o r u l : g d - w h b c m x f p & k – v y 

And as I sat on this old, unknown world, I thought of Gatsby's wrath as a first pick out of Daisy s light. It had a long way to go to this bluish lawn, and his vision must had so far sprang to him that it could not fail to grasp. It did not know that it was now back in that vast obscurity, a part of which was not far away from city. 

Gatsby thought in a gloomy light, orgasticity that strays into our oblivion ; It obstructs us now, but that's nothing--tomorrow will run our arms out a lot. And a good morning ---- 

So on, boats fought against a slack, bound back and forth into past. 

FINAL DAY 



