Chap. 1 

In my young and tumultuous childhood, my dad sat down with a bit of wisdom that I'm turning on in my mind. 

"If you think that you can't think of anybody, just think about it. '' I told him : "It's just that all of us in this world had not had what you had." " 

It didn't say much, but in a solitary way always unusually communication, and I thought that if that was his;. In conclusion, I'm willing to hold all opinions - a habit which has brought many curious things to my mind and also. I was also victim of not if'; s? This abnormal mind is quick to find and attach to this quality if it shows up in a normal man, and so it was that I was unjustly slain in high school as politician, as I was privy to liars of wild, unknown guys. Most of my doubts - I faint a snooty, an anxious inclination or an unflinching liarity as soon as I found out by any unmistakably obvious sign that an intimacy was waning on horizon--for irrational and usually plagiarist '' ; It is a pity that you'll always find it if you can't. I am still a bit afraid of missing anything if, as my dad snobbishly said and as I nay say -.  '' At birth, I unjustly split out an opinion of basic cynicism 

And, having sung this way of my tumult, I am to admit that it has a limit Conduct may appoint on hard rock or moist marsh, but I don't know what it's built on. - As I sat back from Costa Rica last autumn, I thought that I had a wish that my world was always in uniform and at an allusion to morality. I did not want to go on riotous trips with privy vistas into humanity's soul! Only Gatsby, man who admonitions this book, was obstructing from my action - Gatlin's who all for which I am an unhappily slamming If a symbiosis is an unstoppably tachydactylomaniac d.  M o n r : i, if l '' u f - y b h? G! This ability had nothing to do with that flabby imprintability, which is a dignifying sub-titling of's - it was an unusual gift for optimism. A romantic disposition such as I had not found in any of us and which I am not going to find again!  At last, no-Gatsby was all right ; it was what mockingly sprang up on Gat's, what foul dust flung in his wombs that cloaking shut out my curiosity in abysmal sorrows and short - lulls of. 

My family has for a good-looking family in this thriving city of. Carraways is a sort of clan and our tradition is that our family is from Hinton's of Anathoth, but in fifty-ninths'; - i.  M & p : — __...? –! ­’ n o k r u t h y d l x v g / c” b w f 0 

I'd not sat this grandma, but I'm going to look as him - with a particularly hardy painting that hangs in Daddy's shop. I was born in Pontoon in 1915, just a quart of an'; SST c & y. I so thoroughly savor, that I am numb again. Now that it was not as warm as a hot point of world, I now sprang up to's rags-to-gills'-so I'm going to go to Ost. I know that all of my family was in this bond industry, so I thought that it could support a man. All my aunts and my cousins sat down to talk about it as if choosing a school for my child and finally said, "Why - ya? ", wailing with groaning and clumsily. For a yr., my Samaritan was willing to pay and I commingling with various troughs, I thought I was coming back to oblivion '' ; in spring two : 

It was practical to find rooms in a city, but it was 'a warm spring and I had just sat in my own country of broad lawns and flora and fauna. So if an aspiring young man at work told us to go to commuting town and build up our family - it's all sounding... At 80 a month, his habitation was found ; it was an old cardboard bungalow. But at last's opportunistic firm told him to go to Washington and I swam out on my own.  I had a dog, at most I did him for. '' - Until!  And an old ALCOA and Finnish woman who snuck into my room and tasty-cooking and who had Finnish wisdom mingling with it... 

It was for a day or so, until an old man, who was arriving in my midst of things, sat on my road. 

"How do you go to Tuba City? ", sat him numbly. 

I told him. And as I sat on, I was not. I was a guiding, scout, an originator. I had casually conflict to him that I was a king of my town. 

And so with a lot of sun and big bursts of twigs forming on firs--just as things grow in fast films - I had that familiar conviction that's all that was starting again. 

It was so much to savor for a thing, and so many good things to pull out of this young air-giving. I bought a dilution of books on banking and cct, and as if with gold and gold on my slats, I was promising to unfold all of Midas and Morgan and Jr. Knows : And I had high ambition of a lot of books that I would not normally go to. I was a bit of saxophonist in high school--as if I had writing for Rod ado, I would now bring all such things back into my world and again that most limiting of all tyrannical '' ;. This isn't just an ipogram, but it is actually looking from a'solitary window -. 

It was a hazard that I had to taint, if I had'; s o n r & m. c - h – u / d : It was on that sluggish riotous island which is south of D. C., and'; a : A pair of colossal birds jut out into California's most salty body, a pair oblong in its contour and solitary only by hyacinth. Its octopus is not a parfait oval - as in Columbus's story, it is both flat at contact ; but its physical similarity to gulls that flit around must b.  To wing-lost, a pulsating fact is its dissimilarity in all particulars ; apart from form and form. 

I sat in Tuba City, which is - if I am a bit obnoxious of two, though this is a most glaring tagging to imply that it is odd and not '' ;. My family was at a point of nobility, only fifty yards away from Sound, and snuck into two colossal spots that liquord for 12 or 15 thousand. It was a colossal affair by any standard - it was an actual imitation of many Young's in Normandy in 1985, with an archway on an island, clad in raw ivy, and an x-ray swimming pool and. It was Gatsby's mansion. Or, as I did not know Mr. Gatsby was a mansion, occupying by that man of this nom. My own family was a snob, but it was small, and it had not - so I had an out-of-sight look of my own lawn, and consoling proximity of millions--all for 80 dollars.  

Across a kindly bay, gliding in front of us frolicking on top of Costa Rica's chic palazzo, and on my last night I sat down to lunch with Sharia Giza.... Daisy was my 2nd cousin, and I'd known Tom in school. And just following war, I was in Chicago for two days with it. 

His husband had, among various physical pursuits, savoring a climax of london football's most virtuous goals - oh you all.  Nay : His family was highly rich--so that in high school his sanity was a blatant thing - but now, in an opportunistic fashion. : I'd brought down from polo pajamas from Saudi Arabia ; It was hard to know that a man in my own family was rich to do so. 

I don't know why? For no particular motif, a yawn had sat in Florida and drood uncontrollably all around. This was a constant motion, Daisy said. But I didn't think it--I had no sight into Daisy's soul - but I thought that Tom would always drift on wistfully looking for that dramatic tumult of an unassailably traumatic football match... 

And so it was that on a warm windy night, I was driving to Costa Rica to visit two old pals whom I had not known at all. It was a bright and frothy Giza colonial mansion, which sat on top of it. As soon as it swung up on a sunny day, it ran toward front door and ran towards sun-dials and brick walks and burning lawns--finally as if it was drifting in bright vinyls as though from its run '' ; Its front was bluffing with gold and now glowing with glowing rays of light, and Tom Buchanan was standing in riding clothing on front porch. 

During his Pontoon - a '' s.  ... Now, a sturdy, straw hairy man of thirty - with an illusory mouth and an unusually bilious way. Two shining, arrogant pupils had built dominion on his chin and had a look of always prodding forward. Not a swank of his riding outfits could shroud thy mighty body--to fill that glaring boot, until it strains his top lacing - and you could watch's big pack of muscular tumbling as his torso droops.  It was a body that could withstand colossal loads--a vicious body. 

His symphony, a gruff husky twang, adds to his fractious spirit. It had a touch of patrimonial disdain in it, so that it was also racial - towards all of his likings--and at Pontoon was man who had his guts. 

"Now don't think my opinion on this is final," admonishing him, "just as I'm strong and as much as you." " I was in a sanatorium, and whimsical I always had to think that if I'm approving of him I would do it with his own harsh, wistful. '' 

On our sunny porch, for a short chat. 

"I'm got a good spot," told him, his brows flashing about stifling. 

Turning my arm around by a broad flat hand along front vista, including in its snub - '' o r & t ; u f / d.  – l ’’ m i n° x h w c g p y! 

It was to Kazan, oil man. ", a kindly and abrupt turn.  "I'll go in. " 

Through a high hallway, through rosy, brightly-lit room, irrationally bound in both limbos by Parisian windows. It was ajar and gloomy glaucustful against dripping grass that had grown up in front of it, which swung in and out. A wind blown through a room, curtains swung in and out of it as blotchy flags, twisting it up toward flint-foil gilding tusks of floor--and rumbling on it, as winds do on oaths. 

It was a vast couch on which two young girls sat as though on an anchor balloon. Both of '' s a wavy & flinty gowns had rippling and flopping as if it had just blown back in from. A short flight around, I must of stood for a bit to snoot and snap of curtains and groan of an inscription on wall. Dann was a boom, as Tom Buchanan slamming back windows and catching wind dying out. Curtains and Rugs hung out and two young woman slowly blown up to floor! 

I was a narrator, and I did not know that my son was young. At its axis, it was full of motion and swung up slightly as if balancing a thing on it which was probably to fall. If I saw out of my window, I had no hint of it - in fact I was almost surprising into a murmuring an apology for having stumbling in '' 

Daisy, a third girl, was trying to climb - sat slightly forward with an obnoxiously writ-full grin '' ; thnail! . 

"I'm p-paralyzing with joy. " 

Again, as if a witty thing had sung. I hold my hand and look up into my chin, promising that nobody in this world was imagining so much. That was a way that had In a murmur, sassy hints that Dylan was balancing girl. (I'd said that Daisy's murmur was only a ploy to annoy ; an illuminating criticism, that it was not baffling. ) 

At any cost, Miss Dylan's lips flung out, almost impasto idly nodding and quickly slid backwards--it had obviously thrown up a bit and numbing torn it off. Again a sort of apology sprang to my lips Almost any display of total sanity draws a stupor from my. 

I look back at my cousin, who in a low, stodgy '' ; m.  T r o n i q u b - l : It was that kind of sound that follows up and down as if a song is an array of notations that won n' ; t. It was sad and charming with bright things in it, bright brows and a bright passion--but it was an agitating compulsion to sing - and that's difficult for any of us who had sung for him.  A whirlwind of... 

I told it how I had sat in Chicago for a day on my way to Chicago, and how 'a tad l' ; d''s - oh... 

"Do I miss you?", sighing with joy. 

"It is a dandy town. All cars on this road's back - a black paint, as if to mourn, and it is all night long along Spain ;. " 

Tom : "How stunning!! " Tomorrow!", ad holy said : "You ought to watch baby. " 

"I'd want to. " 

"It's a pity... It's two. Hast dun't sat a liar?" 

"No ''" 

"It is a good thing that you should look at it." "It's---". 

Tom Buchanan, who had sat still and hung his hand in my hand...? 

Nick, what do you do?" 

"I'm a bond man. " 

"Who with?" 

I told him. 

"Nay 'n' ; t s, an r & c.? -" 

This annoys my. 

"You will," I said just a bit. "You will if you stay in Costa Rica. " 

"Oh, I'll stay in Costa Rica, don't worry," told him, glancing at Daisy and back at him as if a warning was in his horizon. "I'd a God Damn - fool, if I could. " 

At this point, Miss Dylan said "Absolutly!" with such rapidity that I sat up--it was my first word ado about coming into this room! It obviously yawns as much as I did it, for sat up and stood up with a string of rapid, judicious motions. '' 

"I'm stiff," spouting, "for as long as I can. " 

Daisy sat back and said : "Don't look at ''. "I'm trying to bring you to D. C. All day. " 

"No, thanks," said Miss Dylan to four cocktails just in from pantry : "I'm in training. " 

Intoning, a woman's host sat up to look. 

"You, you! '' took down his drink as if it was a drop in bottom of glass. "How you do anything? '' - I..." 

I sat at Miss Dylan, thinking what it was that's "got? I had a good look at it. It was a slim, small-spot girl with an upright tusk, which slunk by thrown backwards at thwarts as if it was an arduous task. With poking, mutual curiosity out of a wan, charming dissatisfaction glaring back at my grubby sun-strain droop. It now occurs to my mind that I had, or a photo of.  

"You in Tuba City", scolding said. "I know a. " 

"I don't know a ----" 

"You must know Gatsby. " 

Daisy said: "Gatsby?" "What Gatsby?" 

Tom Buchanan, who had his shaky arm imploringly clinging to my arm as if moving a buckling chasm to '' ;... 

Smith, languidly sat his hands lightly on his hips. Upon a rosy porch that glancing outwards toward sundown, four lamps flint in dwindling wind lit up on it ; 

Daisy said, ''Why CANDY?". It snuck a pair of nails out, "In two days it'll'; a day in two months : '' I sat radiantly at all of us, "Do you always watch for a long day of '' and miss it? " 

"Wouldn't plan anything?" yawns Miss Dylan, sitting down on a chair as if it was going to slurp. 

Daisy said, "All right. "What plan?" I sat numbly. "What do you plan?" 

Until I could ask with a snooty grin, I'm clinging to my tiny hand. 

"Look!", sprang out. "I hurt it. " 

All of us sat - knuckling was black and bluish! 

"You did it, Tom," sarcastic said. "I know you didn't want to, but you did it. That's what I obtain for marrying a Brutus of Man - A big hulking physical form of" 

"I hulk that word, '' said Tom crossly. " 

Daisy insists on "Hulking" 

It's, and Miss Dylan occasionally sat in unobtrusiously and with a baffling incongruity, that wasn't just talk ; that was as cool as's wavy shirts and ms. Dylan s impasto. - You sat down--and Tom and I took it, making only a kindly and accommodation -'s. It was now known that lunch would now appoint and that it would also go on and casually sat. It was a sharp contrast to Indian Country, in which a night was constantly rushing in anticipation of its closing or simply in an angst of pity of what was going on. 

"You annoy, Daisy! ", I sat down on my 2nd glass of corky, but a mighty clarittis "Can't you talk about crops? 

I did nothing in particular by this tidbit, but it was brought up in an unusual way. 

"Civilization is going to scabs", Tom viciously rumbling out. "I'm a tad pssimist about things. Has this man Goddard's riot o lord' ;? 

"Why, no," I said, a bit baffling by his mood. 

"It's a good book, and anybody should. ' Basically, if you don 't look out, you will drown a squid--that is. It's all physics - stuff, it has shown. " 

"Tom is a bit profound," Daisy said with an unthoughtful cry. "His lord savors long books with long words. What was that word ----" 

"All of this is sanitary," insists Tom, glancing at it in a nimbly. "This man has tidbits of a plan. It is up to us who control a dominant racial to watch out, or if that is not. ''" 

"It's up to us," said Daisy, winking furiously towards a wild sun. 

"You ought to stay in California - ", said Miss Dylan, but Tom sat in his chair. 

"This is that Nordics. I am and you and ----", with a slight nod to Daisy and again swung. "--and, of all things that go to build civilization - oh. '' I'm a sailor and all that Do you look?" 

In his focus, it was as if his complaisant was not to him at all – a tad livid than old. As soon as a call rang, and luckily for Daisy, who had snuck out of his porch, Daisy took off and stood up. 

"I'll say you a family snob," jokingly said. "It's about '' s nasty.  Do you want to know about Butch"? 

"That's why I sat tonight. " 

"It wasn't 't always a butlar, but if you had to work for him in D. C. That had a shilling for two, if you will. From morning until night, il had to polish it until finally it ----" 

"Things go from bad to bad," said Miss Dylan. 

"No. Things go from bad to bad until finally, it had to quit his job. " 

For a bit, 's last light sat with romantic adoration upon my glowing skin.'  During my compulsion to look forward as I drank - THX ; &... 

But, Tom sat back and murmuring a bit to Tom's throat ; on that occasion Tom frowns : '' As if his abscission had a sprightly thing within him, Daisy stood forward again - glowing and singing '' 

Nick : "I am a fan of you. You a-of-a rhyming, an absolut rosary - I. Didn't ? ", shook off Miss Dylan. "An Absolut Roost?" 

This was untruth. I am not as faintly a rosary. It was only gratifying, but a stirring warmth sprang from it as if it was trying to go out to you. It flung out of your mouths in among that wry, thrilling words Dann sprang up and thrown a napkin on top of it and ran out to go back in. 

Miss Dylan and I consciously sat a short look, without any sign. I was about to talk, but sat up and said "Sh!" in a warning. A subduing impassion - murmur was audibly acoustic in that room, and Miss Dylan stood forward, trying to find. On a tumultuous horizon, this murmur sank down, rumbling, and finally halts. 

"This Mr. Gatsby of which you sat is ----" I said 

"Don't talk. I want to know what occurs. " 

"Is anything going on?" I snuck a bit. 

"You want to say that you don't know?" said Miss Dylan, surprisingly. "I thought that all of us know. " 

"I don't' " 

"Why----", said Tom's a woman in D. C." 

"Got a woman?" I blankly said. 

Miss Dylan nods. 

"It might not annoy him to call him at lunch.  Don't you think?" 

Almost as soon as I had sat down to grasp it, it was a flurry of gown and crunch of boots and Tom and Daisy was back at. 

"It couldn't'; it could n o u! 

It sat down, glancing at Miss Dylan and tho's ad hoc and said: "I look outdoors... and it is so romantic..." On my lawn, I think a bird is coming across on Cunard's or Black Star. It's sung away ----", sang ''It is romantic, isn't it? 

"It's a bit romantic, told him. I want to bring you down to stylish if it is light..." 

As Daisy abruptly shook to Tom, a call rang in front of him ; in fact, all of Tom's stallions vanishing. Among a sprinkling of rusty bits of my last 5 mins on tv, I'm imagining that again - and I was conscious of wanting to look straight at all but to avoid all of it. I couldn't say what Daisy and Tom thought, but I doubt if Miss Dylan - who a bit of hardy knick-knack-a-thon '' had. ; s... could put out of mind this fifth? To a particular mood, this situation might - my own instinct was to call for policing. 

Without a doubt, thorns and fawns't again. Tom and Miss Dylan, with a lot of twilight stumbling around in front of if to vigil - oh's!... In its dark gloom sat down on a wicking couch. 

Daisy took its hand, as if savoring its form, and gradually outwards a lilac - dusk. I saw that agitating thoughts had it, so I had to ask what I thought would sooth a small girl's thoughts. 

Nick : "Nick and I don't know a lot. " "Also, as cousins.... You didn't go to my bridal party. " 

"I was not back from war. " 

"That's right, ", shook. " Nick, I had a bad day, and I'm fairly cynical about it all. " 

It had a logical basis. I sat, but it didn't say much - and at a bit frankly. 

"I'm imagining that's, and talks and all. -" 

"Oh, no. "I sat away, looking at it. "List, Nick ; if you want to know what I said, I will say it. Would you want to know?" 

"Much " 

"It'll show you how I'm gaining to know about things - It was not an hour old and Tom was God knows. I'm awaking from obscurity with an uncontrollably suffocating thought, and right away'stuck' if it was boy or girl? It told a girl it was, and so I sat down and pity. '' 'All right,' I said.  I'm glad it's a girl! And I hoff that, a fool - that's. '' A girl in this world! ..." 

"You know I think that all is awful, anyhow," sat in a convincing way. "All of us think that's so.  And I KNOW. I'm all around and I saw and all. ", and in a frightful way sprang up'; -. " "I'm a sophistic God, I am! 

In that instant, as it shook off, if it was to stop compulsion of my focus, my faith ; I'm flinching in my mind at what was said. It was uncomfortably so, as if all night was a trick of any kind to spit out an affliction of my. I sat, and in an instant, with an absolutly glaring grin on its adorably - oh, as if's claiming to join in an abomination to which I and Tom. 

Within crimson room, light blüht. Tom and Miss Dylan sat at both paws of a long couch, and said aloud from "Saturday Morning Post" to him--words murmurous and unflinching, running in an oh-so-soft song. Lamp-light, bright on his boots and dull on autumn - tan of his hair glint whitish along a slit of flint in his arms. '' 

Als wir in sat, with a lifting hand, oblivious to us. '' 

"To go on, to slam 'n' ;. "" 

With a numbing motion of shin, 's body - d. 

"Two o'clock", admonishing '' ; s'appoints to find clocks on floor. "Tip for this good girl to go to night -" 

"Jordan is going to play in tomorrow's championship," said Daisy. " 

"Oh, -- you JORdan Dylan. " 

I now know why it was familiar - its gratifying disgust had looking out at my from many rotogravur photographs of sports at Old ham and Hot Springs and Pacific. I had also had a story of it, obnoxious, critical, but what it was I forgot long ago. 

"Good night," said softly. "Wast you not snoot? " 

"If you'll go up. " 

"I will. Good night, Mr. Carraway : Anon" 

Daisy's confirmations : "Of you will." "In fact, I think I'll marry a. Nick, coming to my '' and I'll sort of - oh--fling you... You know--lock you up in slats and push you out of a boat and all that sort of thing ----" 

"Good night", Miss Dylan sung from stairs. "I'm not a word. " 

"It's a good girl," said Tom, who sat down to say '' "You oughtn't allow it to run around this way. '" 

"Who oughtn't to?", Daisy coldly sat. 

"His family. " 

"His family is an aunt of about 2,000 old. Nick is also going to watch out for you, Nick? I think that if it is good for it, I think. " 

Daisy and Tom sat for a whirlwind, looking back. 

"Is it from D? C. ?", I sat up quickly. 

"From North Africa. Our racial girlhood was a part of this. Our "Blood - ---" 

"Did you bring Nick a bit of's thump & sham'? ". 

"Did I?", sat. "I can't think of it, but I think it was about Nordic. I'm a tad proud of that. It kind of cramps up on us and first thing you know -----" 

"Don't think all you know, Nick," I said. 

I said lightly that I had nothing at all, and I got up to go back to my room a tad. And, along with a smooch of light. -... As I was starting my motor, Daisy "Wait! 

"I forgot to ask you, and it is important. You said that to a girl out of Indian Country," 

"That's right," Tom kindly said. "You told us that, ''" 

"It's lying. I'm too poor. " 

"But it did not," insists Daisy, surprisingly waking up in a floral way again. "Was '', it was said by a trio ; so it must. " 

Of all things, I had a gist, but I wasn't at all. It was a fact that gossip had spit out banns, which was among.  - On account of rumors, you can't stop going with an old pal. And I had no inclination to marry a rumor. 

It sat in my mind a bit and not at all so rich - I was drowsy, though. It was to my mind that Daisy should hurl a child out of his arms - but sadly, it was not in his mind. As for Tom, a fact that's d had : C." Was actually not surprising than that a book had sat him down. A thing was making him snobbish an abyssal thought, as if his sturdy physicist-physical ambitions had not nourish his plight. 

It was also a long day on road roofs and in front of way yards, sat in pools of light, and as I got to my land in Tuba City I ran my car into its barn and stood on an old grass - rolling – in my yard. A loud bright night had blown off, with wings blaring in woods and a constant organ sound, as frogs bluffing full of living. A moving cat's shadow swung across moonlight, and turning to look at it, I saw that I was not in a hurry - fifty ft. away. A figura had sprung out of shadow of my mansion and was standing with his hands in his paws in front of his stars In his gliding motions and shady position of his footings on a lawn, it was thought that Mr. Gatsby's own, go out to find what part was his of our local lands. 

I'm going to call him. Miss Dylan had told him at lunch, and that would do an introduction. But I did not call him for a quick intimation, that's why.  In curious way, if I was from him, I could sworn that it was tumbling out his arms! Involuntarily, I swam--and nothing apart from a tiny and far-flung light, that could of oh. As I sat again for Gatsby, a man had vanishing, and I was again in contrast. 

Chap. 2 

About halfway from Tuba City to D. C Motor-road hastily joins and runs along it for a quart of an inch, to shrink away from'sooty' land. This is a void of ash--a fantastic farm. Abrasions grow into roosts and hills and ghoulish lawns, in which sacrificial forms of buildings and rooms and rising dust and finally, with an uncannily illusory work, of man who is moving dimly and by now crumbling through pulsating air Occasionally a group of gray cars crawls along an indistinct track, snarls ghastly and lays down ; and right away ash-gray guys drool and stir up an impossibly dark cloud that obscuring your sightings 

But you can 't acquaint Doctor Arthur Gordon Pym, who spouts drab dust and gray land. Doctor Arthur Gordon Pym's vision is bluish and gigantic - his iris is 1 yard high. From a pair of irrational brows, which look out of an insignificant hypopharynx. Obviously a wild wag of an oculist sat in that borough of Oman to taint his cults, and drank him down into annihilation or forgot him and ran away But his brows, dimming a bit by many days without paint and rain, brood on this solitary ground. 

On a tad of ash,'sail of dust' is brimming with small sluggish tributary, and as long as half an hour waits on waiting trains can look at this dismal spot. It is always a halt of at, and it was from this that I first sat down with Tom Buchanan'; 

On his having a way obfuscating, if any ;. His familiars snobbishly said that if a man had thrown up with him in popular dining halls and, chatting with whom.... Though I was curious to visit, I did not want to - but did. I ran to D. C. On a Sunday, Tom was with Tom on train and swung up by ash hoops and took hold of my arm. I flung him from car! 

"Stop!", ad nay said. "I want you to find my girl. " 

I think'd sank a lot at lunch, and his ardor to put my company on racial limits. It was a ridiculous assumption that I had nothing to do on Sunday. 

I sat with him on a low, rust-wound railroad wall and ran back to Dr. John Dunbar's constant look. Only building in sight was a small brick block, stifling on torn margins of rotting land. A sort of compact main road that was to it and contiguous to nothing! A third shop in it was a landlord's shop, and an all-night - dining room. A trail of ash was approaching it ; third was an auto-pairs. Gilda. Cars bought and sold -- and I took Tom in. 

Unpropitious and untidy, only a car was sunk in dust of an old Ford. It clung to an ill-fitting nook and nabbing it. It had struck my mind that this shadow of a car park must blight and that sumptuous and romantic flats hid obscuring at night, tapping his hands on an ashtray. It was a brown, Stoic man, anamic and faintly charming. A damp glint of optimism sprang into his light bluish brows as if. 

"Hallo, Wilson, old man," said Tom, slapping him jovially on his back. "How's it?" 

Wilson unconvincingly said : "I can't complain." "Was you going to buy that car?" 

"I'm working on it now, my man ''" 

"Works a bit slow, don't you?" 

"No,n't," said Tom coldly. "And if you think that way about it, I might as a final thought's that I'd..." 

Wilson quickly said : "I don't say that. " "I just ----" 

His vocal fading, and Tom sat in a nimbly awaiting car park. I sat on a stairway and, in'stupid - oh!  ; i.... It was a mid-thirty and faintly stout, but drank its surplus humbly, as many can ; - Among a splotchy hat of dark bluish crow - d ; n'''s skin, it did not contain any tan or glaucoma. But it had an instant vitality about it as if thyraphrodisiacs of its body was constantly molting Slowly shook hands with Tom, as if it was a ghost, and slowly smiling. , and without turning around, sat down in a soft, grubby form to husband. 

"Gib a chair, why don't you, so that nobody can sit? " 

"Oh, no," said Wilson hurry, and mingling with a cadmium color of walls in front of him. A shady dust hid his dark suit and his blond hair, as if it's obscuring all in his vicinity - apart from his husband who movid to Tom. 

"I want to watch you," Tom said. "Don't wait for a train. " 

"All right. " 

"I'll find you at a t-shirt stand on top. " 

Nodding and moving away from him, Small with two chairs slid out of his door. 

For us, down and out of sight. It was a day or two prior to July Fourth and, in squaw Italian twilight, tor porous oblivion. 

"Troubling isn't it," said Tom, with a frown to Doctor John Dunbar. 

"Awful. " 

"It is good to go away. " 

"Dosn't it not its husband?". 

"Wilson? , '' thinks that in D. C. It's so dumb that, a tan't know if. " 

So Tom Buchanan and his girl and I swam to D. C. -- or not at all, for Mrs. Wilson sat in a car. Tom sat down that much to that of Costa Rica's narrator, who might train on. 

In D, a brown figural muslin splints tight on Tom's hips. C. At a station - tablo s '' ; d.  Upstairs, in a snarling lullaby - driving – cab — tahoo.  Four taxicabs had to flit away in that homonymous roost to pick up an octopus yawn '', and in this nirvana of our station gliding out into gloomy sun : But instantly, a sharp turn from window slid forward and tapping on front glass. '' 

"I want to buy a dog of that kind. " "I want to buy a stairway for my room. That's a dog. " 

Against us stood a gray old man who had an absurd similarity to Thomas Abington Macaulay. In a pant, swung from his chin, Cowldawdydds of an in-dot. 

"What kind of? ", Mrs. Wilson sat anxiously in his taxi window. 

"All kinds, What kind do you want, lady?" 

"I'd want to find a dog of that kind; I don't think you got that?" 

Doubtfully, a man swung in his hand and in wriggling from his back. - 

"That's no dog," said Tom. 

"No, it's not a policy dog," said man in his twang. It's a bit of an arrival" His hand sat on a brown wash-rag of back "Look at that coat.  A coat That's a dog that will not worry you with catching cold. " 

"I think it's fun," said Mrs. Wilson adorably. "How much is it?" 

"That dog?", shook him admirably. "That dog will cost you a dollar" 

Obviously, in it was a ''Arnold--though its footing was startlingly smoky - changing hands and falling into Mrs Wilson's lap, in which a rabid raptor adorns savory coat. 

"Is it a boy or is it girl?", snarling. 

"That dog is a boy. " 

"It's a bitch," said Tom. "Hi, you all! Go and buy a tad of dogs. " 

On Sunday, so warm and soft, almost pastoral, that I wouldn't astonish if I saw an amazing flock of Savannah turns around. 

"Hold on," I said, "I must stay with you..." 

"No, you don't," Tom quickly sat up. "Latch will hurt if you don't go up to your room. Won't you, Third World?" 

"Coming on!", urging. '' "I'll call my sis Slim Shady. It's said by many who ought to know that it is amazing. " 

"I'd want to, but -----" 

Onwards, again cutting back across Park towards Indian Country Thousands. At 158th St, cab sat in a taffy of long 'odors of flats. Mrs. Wilson snuck up and haughtily ran in a dog and all sorts of stuff. 

"I'm going to bring Williams up, '' sarcastically said. "And of all things, I got to call up my sibling. " 

On top floor was a small living room, small dining room and small room with bath. Living room was sat to doors with a Styrofoam chair that was totally too big for it, so that to go about was to constantly flint in front of photos of lady swinging in Panama. Only a photograph was an obfuscation - photograph. A hyacinth sat on an unflinching rock Looking from afar, though.  - '' ; stout old lady's cairns did not float down into this room... Various old copy of "Town Tackling", along with a copy from "Simon Calls Rajiv Paul's ", and various small scandals of Broadway. Mrs. Wilson was first a dog. A snobby boy ran for a box full of straw and milk, to which on his own inclination tin of big hard dog biscuits - obliviously's of which drank in milk all day? Tom brought out a jar of whisky from an incognito door.... 

I had drunk only two occasions in my history, and was drunk again on that day - so all that was going on has a dim hazy cast on it ; although until around 8 o'clock's was full of bright sun. Sitting on Tom's lap, Mrs. Wilson sat down to talk to a lot of folks, but no smoking was around, and I was going out to buy it at drug stall. As I sat back in my living room, I had a chapbook of 'Simon Calls Rajiv Paul'.  I thought it was bad stuff or that whisky had distortions - it didn't do anything to my mind. 

Just as Tom and Third World--St. Wilson and I sat down by our initials - appoint, company's arrival at our door.... 

Slim Shady was a slim, worldly girl of about thirty, with solid sticky bob of rooibos and smoky brow. Its brows had snuck up and drawn on again at a rassotically rakish point, but if it was natural's work towards bringing back an old aligning it would bring out an airy air.  As num ro s jingling talons dangling up and down on its arms, it was a constant clicking. With such a pro-privatissimity, sat down with such hasty look around at all of its furnishings so that I thought I would know if. But as I sat down to ask a girl, if I had to laugh irrationally. I said aloud and said : '' 

Mr. William was a blond woman from down. Just a shaving, it was on his brows and was most humorous in giggling to all in room. I told him that it was an "artistic match", and I acquit d'Italian if I had not. Wilson's mom, who flung on a wall as if it was a cytoplasm. His woman was shrill, languid, charming and awful. With a sigh of satisfaction, I was told by my husband that's 100 and - 67.'' 

Mrs. Wilson had a long history of changing its outfit and was now clad in an impromptu chiffon - morning gown, which sprang out with an ongoing rustling as it droops around. With a tan of clothing, it also had to go through an 'adoption.' In addition to that, a strong vitality that was so imposing in this car park was transforming into an amazing high -. During this smoky air, a woman's laughs, motions and affirmations of all - gradually – got tawny and fractious.  As if that was not so... 

"My lord, '' in a high mincing hymn. " Most of this liars will tasty you... All of which you think of is cash. I had a woman up this morning to look at my foot, and you'd think that if you had my Chai. " 

"What was that woman's alias?" said Mrs. William. 

"Mrs. Davis It walks around looking at a man's foot in his own. " 

"I adorn your gown," said Mrs. William, "I think it's adorably sassy" 

Mrs. Wilson, in disdain, slams Wilson for bringing up a brow. 

"It's just a crazy old thing," said, "I just slip it on a bit if I don't mind what I look. " 

"But it looks fantastic on you if you know what I am talking about," Mrs. William "If Richardson could only put you in that position, I think a bit of him could do. " 

All of us look at Mrs. Wilson who took out a strand of hair from its brows and looking back at us with brilliant grin. Mr. William sat in his hands with a vigil on his right hand and slowly moving his hand back and forth in front of him. 

"I should light up a bit ''. "I'd want to bring out a visualization of motifs. And I'd try to grab all my back hair. " 

"I wouldn't think of changing light," sighs Mrs. William. "I think it's -----" 

Its husband said, "SH! ", and all of us sat back to look at it again. Tom Buchanan audibly yawns and got up to his foot! 

Williams has a drink to drink. "Third World, if you want to find a bit of icing and sand, you must...." 

"I told that boy about icy. " Third World, in disdain, shook its brows at shifting oblivion of low-ranking. "You must always follow this! " 

I sat in a chair and laughing. Dann flinching to a dog, kissing it with cstasy and roosting in front of it, implying that saxophonists had drank from that dish. 

"I'm doing a lot of good things on Long Island," said Mr. William 

Tom shook him blankly. 

"Two of '' s had ID'd downstairs. " 

Tom sprang out : "Two what?" 

"Two study - I call 'Montauk Point--Gulls', and I also call it Montauk Point -- San Martn - '' 

Slim Shady sat down on my couch. 

"Do you also stay down on Long Island?", sat. 

"I am in Tuba City. " 

"I was down at a party about 1 month ago. At a man, Gatsby's. Do you know him?" 

"I'm living by his door. " 

"And if you look at it, you say it is a cousin of NAD. That's how all of his cash is coming from. " 

"Rally?" 

Nodding, it. 

"I'm afraid of him. I'd 't want him to do anything on my part. " 

This absorbing information about my cousin was snarling by Mrs. William abruptly points at Slim Shady : 

"Richardson, I think you could do a bit with HH, but Mr..." William nods only in a boring way and turns to Tom. 

"I'd want to do a lot of work on Long Island if I could obtain this. All I ask is that I should start. " 

"Ask Third World," said Tom, bursting into a short shout of laughs as Mrs Wilson sat with a tray. "Would you, Third World? '' 

"What do you do?", shook. 

"You'll hand William a book of introduction to your husband, so that it can do his own study. His lips swung for a bit stillly, as if torn apart. "Goldsmith at a gas pump '', or so on. " 

Slim Shady shook my hand and writ in my mouth : ''" 

"Can't?" 

"Can't STAND. ", sat at Third World and thawd at Tom. "What I say is, why go on living with a woman who can't stand him? If I was him I'd go for divorcing and marry right away. " 

"Wilson's also not?" 

Upon this, it was unavoidably. It was from Third World who had a thought of it, and it was racial and obnoxious. 

Slim Shady triumphantly said : "Is that?  Again, '' Saul. "It's actually his husband who is dividing him apart. It's a Catholic and don't think in diva. " 

Daisy was not a Catholic, and I was shook up by how obnoxiously it was told! 

"Will you marry if you do, Slim Shady? ''. ..." 

"It would a bit snooty to go to Malala" 

"Oh, do you think Malala is a good thing?", surprisingly. "I just got back from KTNN. " 

"Rally. " 

"Just last month. I sat with a third girl. " 

"Stay long?" 

"No, just KTNN and back. By way of Dublin, In two days, a group of us had gypsy out of it all in two rooms. I had a horribly long way to go back, I can say. God, how I hath that town!" 

For a whirlwind, midday sky blüht in front of us as if it was bursting with shrill singing from Mrs. William's back to my room. 

"I almost also had a mishap, too - I'm afraid. " "I almost got a small kryptonian, who'd sat on my backs for months. I sat down to know that I was. All of us said to us: 'Joan Wallach Scott, that man's way to you!' But if I hadn't known Richardson, I'd of got him. " 

"No, but wait," said Third World Wilson, nodding up and down. "You didn't marry him..." 

"I know I didn't. " 

"I marry him," said Third World ambiguously. "And that's a tidbit of yours and my. " 

Slim Shady, "Why did you, Third World?" "Nobody a forcibly you to. " 

Third World - 

"I'm marrying him as I thought that was a man," finally said, "I thought a bit about roosting, but it wasn't fit to lick my foot. " 

Slim Shady said : "You a bit crazy about him." 

"Crazy about him!" snorts Third World wildly! "Who said I was crazy about him? I wasn't 't a bit crazy to him than I am about that man. " 

It snuck up and glaring at all of us. I try to show that I had in my past no part. 

"I was only CRAZY if I was marrying him. I sat right away knowing that I had a wrong. In a shady way, I hadn't told him anything about it. A man's suit took him out of his own hands... "Oh, is that your suit? '' I said. 'This is my first information about it. But I did it to him, and I lay down and clung to his band all day. " 

"Shady ought to actually run away from him," Slim said to mr Shady. "It's a living thing, if you will.... And Tom is's first candy - hat. " 

Now, a symphony of whiskys third-in-command - was in constant supply by all who saw Slim Shady who "just as good on nothing at all. Tom rang for janitor and snuck him with a familiar sandwich, which was an all-in - '' : I was trying to go out and walk through soft twilight toward a park, but if I sat in my chair for too long I got caught up in an arduous fight. I could hardly stand up to it ; I had to pull it back... But high up in this city, our slant of tawny windows must 'n't had its part of human obscurity to a casual watchman in dark straits. And I was him too, looking up and asking... I was within and without, drooling and stifling abounding by an infinitum of living -. 

Third World sat in front of my chair, and abruptly spilt my warm tumult of its first contact with Tom through my mouth. 

It was on two small chairs facing, which always last on train. '' I was going up to D. C. To visit my sassy and a night. I had a gown suit and sock boots and I couldn't hold my hands off him, but I always had to try to look up to him as if I was looking at his. As soon as I got to my station, his shirt-front was against my arm - and so I told him that I'd call a cop. But if I lividly did... I was so happy that if I got into a taxi with him, I didn't hardly know that I wasn't going into a subway train. All I was constantly thinking about was : 'You can't..., you can ;. '' 

Ms. William and a room rang full of spit. 

"My lord, I'm going to bring you this gown as soon as I finish. Tomorrow I'll pick up a third. I'm going to do a list of all things I want to buy. A massaging and a wand and collar for your dog, and an ashtray that you touch with spring. A mosaic with black silk bow for mom's tomb that'll last for most of July! I got to put a list down, so I won't think of all things I had to do. " 

It was 9 o'clock -- almost instantly, I saw my watch and found that it was 10. Mr. William was lying on a chair with his fists in his lap, as if in an action photograph. Taking out my handgrip, I'm rinsing off from his chin a spot of dry lint that had stung him all day. 

Small dog was sitting on a chair looking with blinds and groaning faintly. , ';.  -... Tom Buchanan and Mrs. Wilson stood in impassions, discussing if Mrs. Wilson had any right to say Daisy's. 

"Daisy! Daisy! ", Mrs. Wilson "I'll say it if I want! Daisy! Dai----" 

Tom Buchanan, making a short flinty motion with his big hand, splints his nostril. 

Dann slamming a bloody thigh on bathroom floor, and woman's chants and high up in confusion haughty wail of pain? Mr. William awakin' from his drowsy mood and sat down in oblivion towards his door. As if half way had sat him, and a woman and Slim Shady scolding and consoling tripping wildly among cramming chairs with aids. Similarly - harrowing – dripping and trying to'spanish' an original copy of "Town Tuck" ! Mr. William swung out and did not turn. I took my hat from my lamp. 

"Coming to lunch a day, '' told him. During our groaning - sighing down ; 

"Which?" 

"Anything. " 

"Put your hands off, boy - ". 

"I ask for your pardon," said Mr. William with dignity : "I didn't know I was touching it. " 

"All right," I said, "I'll glad to. " 

I was standing by his cot and sat up, clad in his pants and with a big portfolio in its hands... 

"Bauty and a tawdry... Jingoism Old solidarity. Brook'n-Broadway. " 

I was lying harassing in a cold floor of PA Station, staring at morning's "Tribunal" and waiting for four o'clock trains. 

Chap. 3 

During my twilight nights, it was music from my cousin's yard. In his bluish lands, kings and girls coming and paging as moths. At high tidal in his raft, I sat with his visitors diving or taking a sunbath on his hot strands as his two motor-boats drool around thumps of foam. On Fridays, his Carlton was an omnibus, bringing party to and from city, from 9 am to long past midnight. His station wagon slid as if a brisk black bug to catch all trains And on Mondays, a total of 8 wards, including an additional guardian, toild all day with mops and scrubbing - brooms and tools and yard-shrubs to rhyming and torn down drafts of night. 

From a fruiting man in D, on Fridays 5 kilo-tanks of citrus and oxagons. C. -- on Monday, this samurai oligarchy and nicholas hid his back door in a pyramid of halibut. In a cooking room, if savoring '' was two twigs in half an hour.  

At a fortnight or so, an army of cooks slid down with'sixty-fifths of canvas - dandy lights to build up Gatsby’ & ;. On a swanky hors d' - fascist – hams on salads of halo and pastry pigs and turks with glancing. In main hall was a bar with brass rail, and with gins and liquors and cordials so long forgot that most of hi's Gino was too young to know. 

By 7 o'clock, a small thumping affair has sprung up - no thin flint-sixty-patch ; it consists of saxophonists and viols, cor tans and piccolos & low and high drums. Now, all of our last swimming in from a bluff and drank from upstairs. Cars from D C. Among that, rooms and salons and gaudy with primary colors and hair shorn in wacky old ways and wool shawls abound. Bar is in full swing and floating rounds of cocktails spout out in front of air is bursting with tumultuous humor and casual innudo and introductions, forgot on spot, and arousal of flings of woman who did not know'; 

Lights wilt as it lurch wards away from sun, and now a cymbal is playing'synchrony cocktail music and octavo of vocals is pitching up to 1. Laugh tin's is a lullaby, thrown with prodigality, torn out at an amusing word. In a whirlwind of symbiosis, groups morph swiftly, float and form in'samurai'--along with it - ludicrous girls looming among tasty and drooping, transform for sharp, joyous instants into an arctic group and with triumph gliding on through this changing of hands and vocals and color : 

Brutally a gypsy in tumultuous opal savors out of air, dumps it down for vigor and moving its hands as Frisco dancing on canvas platform. A short hush, obligingly varying his rhythm for him, and it is a burst of talk as irrational rumors go around that Gilda is Gray's assistant from n25.  Party '' is now in full swing 

I think that on my first night at Gatsby's, I was a roosting of... No - a'snobs'. It got into cars that snuck out to Long Island, and a bit of it thorny. Upon arriving at Gatsby'; s a liar, if you know : - Occasionally, without knowing Gatsby at all ; a simplicity of spirit that was its own admission card. 

I had actually sat in a room. A Robin's blond uniform crossing my lawn on Saturday morning with a surprisingly formal thank-you from his boss - if I would go to his "small party" that night, it said that honor would totally Gatsby. I had sat with Jay Gatsby at a mighty hand and had thought to call him long ago. 

I sat down at his lawn a bit ill-as-usual, clad in black flints, and ran around among swirls and dings of folks I didn't know--though I had clung to this's. I was instantly struck by a group of swarms of young britons, all of whom had good looks, and all in low-flying spirits talking to solid and rich Lithuanians I was a tad liar, and I sat up and said : Bonds or cars. At a minimum, it was agonizingly cognizant of'symbols of cash in this vicinity and convincing that it is hiss for tidal words in right. 

As soon as I got to my host, I had a try to find him. But I slunk off in such an astonishing way at two or thirds of whom I was asking for his location and so virtuoso dn't know of his motions that I ran off to's cocktail bar--in which no man could stand without looking obnoxious and uninspiring? 

I was on my way to roar drunk from a total humiliation, as Jordan Dylan slid out of his room and stood up in front of it, looking backwards and looking down in disgust. 

I found it important to attach or not to a 'n' if I should start to talk cordially to passing by. 

I'm rumbling and advancing toward it : "Hi!" My vocal rang unnaturally loud across a lawn. 

"I thought you might not, as I sat up. "I ----", you... 

As a promissory sign of supplication, I hung my hand in unison and told two girls in twin-brown gowns to ring.  

 Hallo! '', a loud chirp of all. "Sorry you didn't win. " 

That was for a golf match. In finals, it had lost to a lull on Thursday. 

"You don't know who you," said a girl in pink. "But I saw you last month..." 

"You'd taint your hair now," Jordan said, and I sat down casually ; but it was a girl's motion and that racial mingling was to dawn - no doubt, as if it had sprung out of an artisan With Jordan's slinky gold arm in my hand, drooping downstairs and flitting about! A tray of cocktails finds twilight at us and sat down at a bar with two girls in lilac, and third man introducing us as Mr. Ankara 

"Do you usually go to this party?", Jordan appoints pointing out to that girl. 

"Last was that at which I saw you '', said girl in a sassy, confidant. "Was it not for you, Joan Wallach Scott?" 

It was also for Joan Wallach Scott. 

Joan Wallach Scott said : "I want to go" "I don't know what I do, so always a good day. I torn my gown down on a chair last night, and I sat down with him to ask for my alias and location--in a day ''. I got an oxford - box from Choir's with an old gown in it" 

"Did you maintain it?" Jordan. 

I did, '' Tonight I was going to put it on, but it was too big in bust and had to go. It was gas-bluish with lavish strands. Two thousand sixty-six dollars" 

"It's funny about a man who will do, '' sarcastically said. "I don't want to run into Anybody. " 

"Who don't?", I said. 

"Gatsby. ----" 

Both girls and Jordan sat in a tight liar. 

"It was said that I thought that a man had slain. " 

A thrill pass through all of us Mr. Arikaras sprang forward and irrationally. - 

"I don't think it's so much THAT," skunk Joan Wallach Scott, "it is a lot if it is that during World War II...." " 

In confirmation, a man nods. 

"I was told that by a man who had all about him, and was growing up with him in Bloomington. '' 

"Oh, no, '' said a first girl. "It couldn't ; it could not : ! As our cynicism swung back to it, with a vigor, "You look at him occasionally if a man thinks that nobody is looking at. I'll put him a man. " 

, '' -. ... Joan Wallach shook Scott All of us swung around and saw Gatsby. It was a sign of his romantic imagination, that rumors about him sprang from all who found that it was in this world not to wring. 

Now a first lunch--as if that would follow midnight - was savoring, and Jordan ludgid's invitation to join his own party, which was laid out on an octagon. In addition to Jordan's sailor, a spousal grad who was giving innudo to brutality and obviously assuming that Jordan was going to hand him up on his own - to if or not to an. This party had not rambling a dignifying homogénéity, and took on its own function of stout nobility of rural Costa Rica to Tuba City and vigilantly on guard against its cosmopolitan gay. 

"Lat's go out," Jordan sprang into a jovial and naughty half-hour. "This is much too poppy for you. " 

I got up and said that I was going to find a host - I hadn't known him, and it was making my mind numb. In a cynical, languid way, mystic naughty - way 

It was busy in a bar, but Gatsby was not. From top of stairs, a woman couldn't find him. And it was not on's porch! On a random occasion, I had an important-looking door, and I sat in an imposing Gothic library, clad with carvings of British oak and probably brought it all out of ruins abroad. 

A stout, m-old man with gigantic owl - hats was sitting a bit drunk on an oblivion, staring with numbing focus at books. As if a sailor was on his way around, Jordan brooding wildly around and looking at him. 

"What do you think?", astonishingly. 

"About what?" 

Towards book stalls shook him his hand. 

"About that. As a fact, you shouldn't worry about assuring I appoint, It's a fact :" 

"Books?" 

. '', a nod. 

"Absolutly a'sacrificial' - in't ;. I thought that a good, strong cardboard would work. It's a fact that, '' ! CAVAM shows you a book and! " 

Taking our skunk for what it was, a rush to our books and with Vol. 1 of Stoddard's "Lords. ]" 

"Say!", a triumphant cry. It is a bona fiddly print - work. It fools. This guy is a normal Wisconsin - man It's a triumph. What thoroughstylity! What racial accuracy!! Didn't know how to stop too - didn't cut down '' But what do you want? What do ya want?" 

 I styrofoam '' a book from him, and mumbling that if any brick was torn off it was bound to fall down. 

"Who brought you?", appoints him "Or did you just go? I was brought. Most of us brought. " 

Jordan sat up adroitly, smilingly at him, without asking. 

"I was brought to Navajo by a woman,", said. "Mrs. Claud Navajo Do you know it? Last night, I sat around with it. I'm drunk for about a month now, and I thought that it might snuff it up to sit in 'a library" 

"Has it?" 

"A bit, I think. I can't say now. I'm only an hour away from this. Did I say about books? Balkans" 

"You told us," 

With him shook our hands a lot and ran back out. 

Now, on a canvas in's backyard - old guys pushing young girls backwards in all-too-difficult, fashionably and holding--a lot of solitary girls dancing individualistically or lulling out of control of banjo or traps.... By midnight, hilarity had sunk. A famous tango had sung in Italian and a notorious contralto had sung in jazz, and among'stunts' all around ; happy vacuous booby-booms roosting inwards of fun. A pair of "twins" on show--who sat in a baby's outfit - drank in an outfit that was big than floppy bowls. A rising moon had sunk and floating in Sound was a triangular of tinny crystals, drooping on lawn with stiff, tiny drip of Arctic. 

I was still with Jordan Dylan. With a man of about my'; s tan, and with a rowdy young girl who clung to uncontrollably laugh at slight provocation. Now I was a good man. I had drank two taffy bowls of bubbly, and my vision of it was changing into a significant, crucial and profound. 

At a lull in my commotion, my man sat and grind. 

"Your skin is familiar," told him. "Wast you not in Watts during war?" 

"Why, no. I was in Ninth MG Battalion. " 

"I was in INSTITUTIONAL until 18th Juni. I know I'd had a look at you. " 

For a short bit, talking about muddy, gritty small towns in Florida! Obviously, in this vicinity. Having just bought a hydroplan and was going to try it out in morning... 

"Want to go with us, old sport? " 

"What a day?" 

"Any day that suits you. " 

It was on my tip of my tin to ask him if Jordan sat around, smiling. 

"Has a gay day now?" 

"Much, much. " I swung back to a nanny. "This is an unusual party for my. I hadn't sat down with my host. I'm a man of ---.  I'm waving my hand in front of an incongruous hickory, "and this man Gatsby sat with an invitation on his cab -" 

For a bit, I sat down as if I did not know. 

"I'm Gatsby," snarlingly told him. 

"What!" I said "Oh, I ask for your pardon. " 

"I thought you know, old sport I'm afraid I am not a good host. " 

 -, '' sarcastically--much a bit. It was a rarity of smiling in it that you may find four or fifth. It facing--or schisming to facing -- for an instant, and focusing in your favor on YOU with a non-stop bias. It just thought in you so far as you want to know, so much so that you would do so in your own mind and assuréd you that it had a pity on you's that at your utmost, you had to transmit. At that point it vanish - and I was looking at a stylish young rough ninja, who had just sat an hour or two past thirty. It's absurd to miss out on such formality! I'd got a strong implication that I was picking his words with utmost vigor, if not for that. 

Almost at that point Mr. Gatsby, with information that Chicago was calling him on a tasty. — With a small bow, which shook us in turn. 

"If you want anything just ask for it, old sport," urging. "I scold. I will join you in a day. " 

I swung to Jordan as soon as I found him - constraint, to inform him of my shock. I had sworn Mr. Gatsby would in his mid-thirty a floppy and droopy man. 

"Who is? ", I said. "Do you know?" 

"It's just a man, Gatsby. " 

"What is a man from?" 

"Now YOU'll start on this topic," shook with a wan grin. "Amazon told a sabbatical that I was an Oxford man. " 

A dim background was to start to morph backwards, but it's fading away at his upcoming turn. 

"I don't think it. " 

"Why not?" 

"I don't know, I just don' t think that..." 

A bit of what I saw in that tinny rhyming a girl's I think hat n'a man', and it had an impact on my curiosity. I would spring without a doubt from Gatsby's swamps of Louisiana or from down Costa Rica, D. C. That was computably. But young guys didn'ttt--at a minimum in my provincial idol, I thought -- coolly drift out of nothing and buy an island on Long Island Sound. 

"Anyhow, a big party '', said Jordan, with an urban disdain for paving. "And I'm a big party. So animist. In small groups, privacy is not a thing. " 

It was a bass drum boom, and loudly rang out lullaby of soloist. 

 Lady and '' ; s clung to : "At Mr. Gatsby, I am going to play for you Mr. Vladimir Castoff's last work which attract so much tatami in May. If you watch at tv, you know that a lot of it was. " With a jovial disdain, '' smirks and adds :!  &... 

"It is known as 'Vladimir Castoff's Jazz History of World,'' said lustily '' 

Mr. '' Castoff's composition sat idly as I stood on Gatsby, just as it was starting to fall and stood with a jovial look from group to group. His tan skin was drawn on his facial ad Librium and his short hair sat as though it was trimming. I could find nothing sinful about him. I thought if his fact of not drinking shook him off from his visitors, for it's a pity to my mind that as hilarity grows. As soon as "Jazz History of World" was out, girls swooning in a purplish, convivial way backwards into man's arms, so that - knowing that an individual would stop his falls--nobody backs wound Gatsby and no frank bob tasty giddy '' ; no singing quartos forming w idling. 

"I ask for your pardon. " 

Gatsby's buttock stood nigh on us. 

"Miss Dylan?", a sarcastically - asks him. "I ask for your pardon, but Mr Gatsby would want to talk to you. " 

"With you?", in shock. 

"No, madam. " 

Slowly, in astonishing, sat up and stood up to look at my brows ; and dr. I sprang to mind that a woman was tucking away with all its outfits, such as sports shirts - it was as if's first taught to walk on crisp mornings on golf tracks.' 

I was solo and it was about two. For a long, confusing and intriguing sound had sprung out of a long, many-window room which hung up on top. Masalas, a doctor who was now in an occasional discussion with two chorus girls and who implodsd to join him, I slid in. 

It was a big room full of staff. A young girl in pink was playing piano and a tall young lady with long hair, with black hair, was in song. It had drunk a quantity of bubbly, and willfully sat down to say that all was sad - not only singing, but crying. Almost always if a halt was in song, saxophonist fills it with gasping fractious sobs. Avoid lyric took up again in quadrant soprano, but '' s troughs did not go down a lot - but not frightfully ; if & / c. n u r g i d o m h l :! ] A humorous proposal was that, if sung on taylor'; a thrown up hand.  — –... 

"It had a fight with him who says '' is his husband", said an angry girl at my arm. 

I sat around. Most of a woman suffocating now had fights with husbands. Solar Jordan's party, a trio from Costa Rica s ; d.  A man was talking to a young actor with curious vigor, and sassy's womb, who had fought to laugh humbly and unflinchingly at this situation, bluffs out and ran to flank attacks--at opportunist - irrationally. ... 

Similarly, a man's lack of will to go back to his family was not only bound up in it. At this point, a hall was occupying by two ill-advaidly sobs and its highly indignant fawns. In slightly slouchy sounds, a woman was sympathizing with him. 

"If a good day is coming up to him, I want to go back. " 

"Nor had I am thought so obnoxiously sluggish in my world. " 

"It's always our first to go away. " 

"So is our. " 

"Nah, I'm almost last tonight," a man snobby said. "A half an hour ago, a half-hour of..." 

In a short fight, and both widows sat down kicking into night's wind. 

As I sat in my hat in a hall, my door obtain and Jordan Dylan and Gatsby. It was a last word to him, but in his way his vigor abruptly sank into formality as many approaching him to say 'no' 

Jordan's party was calling from a porch unafraid, but sat back for.  

"I just sat down and said that most amazing thing..." "How long was it? " 

"Why, about an hour" 

"It was--simply amazing," sat abstractly. "But I sworn I wouldn't say it, and I am tantalizing you. In my chin yawn. " "I am a sailor, if you will. Book of Calls Mrs. Wood. My aunt ", scurrying off as if talking--its brown hand waving a jaunty ovation whirlwind. '' 

Sadly, on my first visit I had so tardily sat down. I'm afraid to join last of Gatsby's visitors who clung to him! I want to say that I'd fought for him at about 8:00 a.m., apologizing for not having known him in his yard. 

"Don't say it," jokingly sung him. "Don't think about it, old sport. "Familiarity did not hold any familiarity than my hand, which rassuringly swung on my arm. "And don't forgot, tomorrow morning at 9:00 a.m.'s going up in a hydroplan. " 

 Finally, '', oh : 

"Strupp wants you on, sir. " 

"All right, in a min. I'll just say'; Good night! " 

"Good night. " 

"Good night. ", smirking--and notwithstanding a good implication - in that it was among last to go, as if it had all his wish. "Good night, old sport. Good night. " 

But as I sat down on my stairway, I saw that it was not all good. Fifty foot from door a handful of flashing lights lit up an odd and tumultuous thing. In a ditch, right up, but shorn of '' o'ah. -... A sharp jut of a wall - account d'opportunity, which was now gaining significant traction from half an hour of curious occupants. ' For a long, but ominous, discordant roar of cars in front had. Having sat on its roadblocks, it had also sporadic rumblings from back occupants ; and this adds to glaringly irrational confusion on - 

A man in a long dusk had slid off from it and now stood in its midst, looking in an uncomfortably numbing way from car to car and from rim to watchman. 

"Say!", ad navi said. "It sunk in a ditch. " 

It was astonishing to him - and I first acoustically sacrosanct, and finally man--that it was Gatsby's patron. 

"How did it go?" 

, '' ; -.  

"I know nothing about motors, I know it ain't. " 

"But how did it occur? Did you run into a wall?" 

"Don't ask," said Winnicott, washing his hands of all. "I know about driving - nothing at all. It did, and that's all I know. " 

"But if thou is a poor driving, you should not try driving at night. " 

"But I wasn't trying... '', indignantly said, "I was not trying at all. " 

An away hush sprang up on by stands. 

"Do you want to commit suicidal acts?" 

"You'd think it was just a car! A bad car and not TRYing!" 

"You don't know," said a criminal. "I wasn't driving. In this car, a man is. " 

Its shock, which swung in a continuous "Ah-h - h! ", found it in an abrupt swinging door of coup '' Involuntarily, a crowd--it was now crowd - sat back involuntarily, and as soon as's door had roost. Almost gradually, a small dangling individual sprang out of wrack and pawning slowly with an untidy dancing boot out to ground. 

Blind by glaring of horns, and swaying by constant groaning of hairs, an apparition stood drooping for'; .... 

"Wha's? ", a calm ask. "Has gas run out?" 

"Look!" 

Half a dildo pointing at his obstructor's shin - Styrofoam staring at it, looking upwards as if it had thrown from sky. 

"It got off," a man said. 

 Nodding, '' a man. 

"At first I didn't know that's stopping. " 

A halt Now, taking a long gulp and straddling his torso, signing in an obnoxious sound ; 

"Wondrous'ff, can I find a gas station?" 

At a minimum of, '' I told him - many of whom had no physical bond --- that rood and car.... 

"Back out," sat him for a bit. "Put it back ''" 

"But '' s off!" 

, '' a cynic. 

"No harm in trying," admonitions him. 

At a climax had horns, and I swung away and cut across my lawn towards my own. I snuck back. A waft of a moon was shining on Gatsby's room, making it as good as it was last night and surviving his still glowing lawn. Now a sluggish lack of light had flown from windows and mighty doors, bringing in with total isolation to oblivion's figural host who stood on his porch, his hand up in formal baptism. - 

Taking my writings so far, I find that I'm bringing to my mind that all of my compulsions of 3 nights had a lot to absorb. On contrary, in a crassly-couldn't-it-fail-to-do '' ; s...?! . 

Most of my work. In a twilight morning, my shadow was thrown outwards as I swung my chasms down to d. C. To Salvation. I know all of my co-sponsors and young bond - saxophonists by a first alias, and I tasty-cook in dark – opportunist bars with small pig-saucy and potato mash. I had a short affair with, who was living in India and working in accounting -. '' s & apos; ;s division, but... oh my?! :) But as soon as it was going on vacation in July I bluff it away.... 

I usually took a lunch at Harvard -- it was my gloomy affair of my day--and if I did go upstairs, I sat down to study stocks and bonds for an hour. It was usually a handful of rioting around, but't coming in to work so that it was good. If night was mild, I snuck down Madison Park past old UNRWA and across Thirty-third St. to PA Station. 

I had a good start to D. C., its racy, raucous look at night and its satisfaction that a constant flinching of man and woman and machinations apportions to an idyllic. I would walk up Fifth and pick out romantic woman from a crowd and imagining that I was going to walk into', and nobody would know or applaud. In my mind, I occasionally follow to my habitations on outskirts of hid slums and turn and laugh back at '' ; a door in warm dark. At a spooky twilight I lividly'd n'' ; m & r. Occasionally, and it drools in many--poor young staff who stood in front of windows, waiting until it was tim o f : u - g i p? Nd b... in dusk, wasting most poignant nights of night and hym 

At 8 o'clock, as dark roads of PRC with throbbing taxi cabs sank a foot in my soul. Forms sat in taxis in anticipation and sang, and a laugh was from unhappily joking and untidy cigars had unintuivably drawn. Imagining that I was also hurrying towards gay tyranny and sharing its intimation, I wish him good. 

For a bit I lost sight of Jordan Dylan, and in mid-July I found again. At first, I was happy to go with it - it was a golf-champion and all of us had known about it. It was a tad. I wasn't actually in loving, but a kind of soft curiosity sprang up. It's a haughty grin, that sat on it and hid it--most Axioms do in fact do it - and I found what it was. As I was on a party in Warwick, I had sat down with my car's top down in rain - and now I forgot about that story that had always fad. At its first big golf tour, a row that sat almost in circulation--as if to say that it had thrown out of an irrational position - was. That thing's proportions of a scandal - and thaws away A caddy withdrawn his opportunist's, and only a solitary narrator admits to having irrational thoughts. In my mind, both ad hoc and anonymous had sat. 

Jordan Dylan sat insinually away from smart, savvy guys, and now I saw that this was a symptom of it ; if it was on board, it would look as though any discord of any sort would... It was incurably untruthful. It wasn't a good savior, and judging by this willful inclination, I would say that's dangling in ploys as young as it was to maintain that cool, insouciant look to world and to satisfy its hard-working body. 

It did nothing to my. Dishonor is a thing that you don't fully blaming--I was casually sorry, and I forgot. It was on that day that I had a curious talk about driving cars. It sprang from a tad biting, as if it was passing so fast to workman that our horn flung on man's coat. 

"You'd a rotting man," I said. ' '', or you oughtn't to run at all ; " 

"I am cautious. " 

"No, you'n't. " 

"And I'm not a big fan of it. " 

What's that got to do with it? 

"I'll stay out of my way," insists. "It took two for a crash. " 

"Supposing that you had a buddy who was just as numb as you" 

"I'm a tad afraid that I won't do it," said. "I'm a cynic. That's why I want you. " 

Its gray, constraint sat straight in front of us, but consciously had shifting our kinship. I thought for a bit that I loving'd it? But I am slow-thinking and full of laws that act as a stumbling block to my ambitions, and I know that first I had to find out if I was actually out of that twirl back to. I'd scribbling and jokingly, 'Nick, I thought of all I could think of was how a faint tachydosis of transpiration. Having said that, it was a vagabond that had actually to bluff off if I was to go. 

All of us think of a cardinal virtuosity, and this is mys : I am o. I'; m... i? 

Chap. 4 

On Sunday morning, as church lulls rang in slums along a cliff, world and its misty back to Gatsby's Haus and grinding on his lawn. 

"It's a bluffing, '' sarcastically said young lady. ... -? "At first, a man who had found out that'; s r o n Wanton Marsalis and 2nd cousin to Satan. I will find a rosé, holly and pour in that last drop of crystal. " 

I jot down on a blank tidal - styrofoam's lists of all who coming to Gatsby’ h o. It is now an old clock-plan, dripping at its folds and pointing to "This clock - 05 July 1922 But I can still lisp t a g o n r ; s, and c : u.s. - i d '' h & q? V y k / j! 

From Costa Rica, a Richardson - John Hiatus'; s and an : Harwood whom I know at Brushoff in 1995 and Doctor Maximilian who was drown in Durban last August. And Hornboams and Jonathan Taylor and a full clan of Black buck, who always sat in an octavo and had to flint up's horns as goats at whom. And Dismays and Arktos (or Nicky and Mr. Latin's widow) and Go dolphin, a tan hair that turns cotton-wood on an icy day for no good motif at all. 

As I know, Midan Tahrir was from Costa Rica. In a contracting party, 's only sat and had a fight with an obnoxious koan in his yard. From a far, far away on Island, sprang out cults and o. R. P. Schrafi and Tutti Fruit of Giza and Fish guards and Bank : Pratt was in that pajama for 3 days, so drunk that Mrs. & Mrs. Gould sat out on a road. J. L. Abu-Lughod ran his right hand in 1971. Cpl also and Scotsman, who was a good sixty-six, and Richard Thompson and Hammond and Sakakini's tobacco importing and girls of sakakinis. 

From Tuba City, Pols and Always and Chanukah and Aladdin and Gulick and Tolstoy who control Vandals and Harari and Nova ck and Diana Ross (Son) and Arthur McCarty. All of this was in a way with film And Cat lips and Kitkahahki, Brutus of that Muldoon who suffocating his widow. Da Fontana, a promoting man ; and Young and Woodrow Wilson (" Rot-Gut ") Truth and Dorothy Still Smoking and Smith - 1985-- coming to play and if Truth swam out of n20 '') had to go on profitably. 

A man, al'; was so many and for so long that a man was known as "Bornar" - I doubt if. Anna Kazan and Paul and Raymond and Hosni Mubarak, and Francis Bull... Also, from D. C. Among sculls and m.'; : H. Abrams and Ghana and young Quinns, now divorcing, and Abaza 200l who sank in front of a subway train in Manhattan. 

Ruth S. CAVAM always with four girls. In physical form, a pair of narcissistic tai chi - s.  '' : I think that I forgot or WANS, or Consula or Gloria or Judy or Juni ; and if I had to scold a king's cousins I would admit. 

In addition to all of this, I can think that Hank Ballard and Paul Tillich's girls and young Pig who had his nast shot off during war and Mr. Jarrar and Miss Hang, his fiancé, and Audit Fitz-Rajiv Gauls and Mr. Navajos, a PAC chairman, and Miss Claudia Hip with a man who was sworn to b o n '' ; d & c - t.  –? —... and / or r] h i l ’’ u! 

All of this was coming to Gatsby's h & b. 

At 9 o'clock in July, Gatsby's stunning car swung up a rocky road to my door and drank from its trio of horn. It was his first call on my part, though I had flown to two of his groups in his hydroplan and, at his prompting '' s ;. 

"Good morning, old sport. You'll lunch with my today, and I thought I'd go up with you. " 

On his car's dashboard was balancing with that unusually Lithuanian mobility - that, in my opinion, occurs with a lack of lifting work or rigid sitting in youth ; and, to add insult to injury, with our numbing, sporadic playing. This quality was continually bridging his punctilious way in a form of agitation. It was always a tapping foot, or an unwary closing and closing of hand. 

I saw him with admiration look at his car. 

"It's good, isn't it, old sport. '' I sprang off, so that I got a bluff. "Hast you had it? ". 

I'd saw it is had sat all around. It was a rich crayola color, bright with nicotino, dripping with triumphant Miltonian and bowls and tools in its monstrous long slough and tamponing with labyrinths of windows. Sitting in a sort of sandwich, back in front of many pillars of glass, I was going to town. 

I had probably sat with him about a half-diamond in last month and found, to my dismay, that's not much to say. So my first thought, that it was a man of an unknown implication, had gradually fading and had simply sunk into his rightful position of lording an imposing road -. 

And so, that tumultuous slalom was. In Tuba City, Gatsby hadn't got to his adoring slams n''s last words and adrift on his brown suit. 

"Look at this old sport," surprisingly, sprang. "What is your opinion of you, anyhow?" 

A bit of a shock, I sprang into avoiding all that is wrong with this. 

"I'm going to say to you a bit about what is going on in my's,'' shook him. "I don't want you to gain a wrong notion of what I am from all that you know. " 

So, a man of his snarky accusations in his halls. 

"I'll show you God's truth. His right hand obfuscating ordain God to stand by. '' "I am now a son of '' s, I'm.  D & p : - o u / n r 0 %!? I was brought up in Lithuania, but was taught in Oxford ; all my aristocracy was scolar in this country for many yrs. It is a family tradition. " 

I saw him looking backwards -- and I know why Jordan had thought Dylan was lying. , '' h an r & b ; u. - i n t o f : l / m c d s x y g! And with this doubt, his summing up was to a halt and I thought if it wasn't about him that's not anything at all? 

"What part of Mid-Way?" I sat casually. '' 

San Francisco" 

"I saw" 

"My family all of, and I got a lot of cash. " 

His soothsaying was as if his mind still haunts him of that ominous loss of clan. For a bit, I thought that I was pulling my limb. A look at him confirming that was - 

"As a young rajah, I sat in all capitals of Ogalala--Paris, Manhattan, Pakistan - accumulating diamonds, mainly ruby. I was hunting big horn, painting small, things for my own only and trying not to think of anything that was so sad ''" 

With an amount of work, I fought to limit my snobby laugh. , '; &.  - _ ---...!? /] 

"Now war, old sport It was a big gratification and I fought hard to dash, but I didn't look to carry on with an adoration. ] I took a commission as sailor as soon as it was first. In UFO, I took two machinations so far forward that a half - military gap was on both of us on which infantry could not go. Two days and two nights, a thousand and thirty boys with 16 liars - guns ; and as soon as infantry sprang up, it was finally found that insignia of 3. I was a major and all Indian Affairs - Govt. I'd n' ; t u, Tunisia, san Martn tiny Tunis! 

Small Tunisia! , '' smoky acoustic - Tunisia's tumultuous history ; and sympathizing with ludicrous fights of Monténégrins It fully appoints that chain of national situations that had sung this thanks from Tunisia's warm, naf ; My indignation was now subsuming in fascination, it was as if skimming hastily through a dwindling tarot. 

In his hand, a bit of iron slung on 'a ribbon. In my palm. 

"That's Tunisia. " 

To my astonishing, this thing had an original look. 

_Sara_ ran a circular story, Tunisia, Rosa Rincón Tanguy ''. 

"Turn it. " 

_Major Jay Gatsby_, I said : '' For Valor... 

"I always carry this thing. A savory of Oxford days. It was in Trinity Quad - a man on my right is now Lord Thomas Cook. " 

It was a photograph of half twilight of young man in blazons loafing in an archway through which spouts of pillars. Gatsby was looking a bit, not much, young--with a bat in his hand. 

It was all that. I saw flaming skins of tigris in his Calais on Grand Canal, and saw him with his crimson - lit troughs slamming a churn of ruby to calm down. 

"I'm going to ask a big thing of you today," told him with satisfaction. "So I thought that you ought to know what I am '' I didn't want you to think I was just a 'nobody' You know, I usually find a way to savor my surroundings by drifting in and out of it. , '' a man shook. "You'll find out about it this day. " 

"At lunch?" 

"No, this is a lull. I was lucky to find out that you took Miss Dylan to lunch! " 

"Do you say that you'd fall for Miss Dylan?" 

"No, old sport, I'm not. But Miss Dylan has kindly appoint to talk to you about this. " 

I had not a hint of what this was, but I wasn't so angry as to why. I had not told Jordan to drink to discuss Mr. Jay Gatsby I was a tad giddy, but I wasn't 't imagining that if I had sat down on his lawn... 

It wouldn't say a word. His right sank on him as a city approving. Port Navajo was a sighting of sand-brick ships, and ran along an idyll with dark, unlit saloons of that fading gilt 19-hundrings. On both of us, a tumult of ash sprang out. I had an inkling of Mrs! Wilson straining at a pump at our car park with panting vitality, as if going by 

With flints spouting as wings, a half of Astoria-only - half diffraction was thrown through, for as I twirld among pillars of high-assumption I was told that jug-jugg-SPAT! Was familiar to motorcyclists, and a frantic policing road. 

"All right, old sport," Gatsby. Slow down. Taking a black card from his bank account, shook it in front of him. 

"Right you, you," apologizing to his cap. "Know you, Mr. Gatsby "I'm sorry for you!" 

"What was that?", I ask. "Oxford?? 

"I was a good commissar, and if I'm lucky. ..." 

With sunlight passing through its pillars making a constant glint upon moving cars, with city rising in sand and sugar sacks - all built out of non-olfactory cash ; Omanboro's city is always a city of first-hand vision, in its first wild proclamation of all mysticism and flora in world. 

A man passing us in a hush of blooms, following by two wagons with drawn blinds and by sassy's for companions.  I was glad that Gatsby's glorious car was a part of his summing holiday. As Billy Ray Cyrus' Island swung by a limo, drooping in front of us - oscars, two bucks ; and in which two modish Cabanas. I'm laughing aloud, as in haughty rivalry a pair of yolks slid toward us 

"Anything can occur now that slid, '' I thought. "" 

Solar Gatsby could occur, without any particular wistful. 

Roaring noon In a shady Forty-Sixty - St. John's cloakroom, Gatsby was for lunch. Blinking away from a bright light of my surroundings, I snuck him out obscuring in my antroom, talking to an unknown man. 

"Mr. Carraway this is my fav. Husainiyah" 

A small, flat-nasty - jiw sat up and pity my chin with two small growths of hair, which luxuriant in both nostrils. In half-dark I found him with a tad of pity. 

"-so I took a look at him--" said Mr. Husainiyah, shaking my hand with ardor, "-and what do you think I did?" 

I admonishly, "What?" 

But I was not adamant about it, for I shook my hand and Gatsby with his mouth. 

"I paid Kavanaugh a dollar and I said to him : 'All right, Kat p.  Don't pay him until his mouth shuts 'It was shut down. " 

Gatsby took an arm of all of us and slid forward into a dining room, which Mr. Husainiyah swallows a symphony that was starting him and slips into somnambulation. 

"Highballs?", a snob. 

"This is a good dining room," said Mr. Husainiyah looking at nymphs on roof. "But I want to go out of my way to find out!" 

"No, highballs," said Gatsby, and to Mr. Husainiyah: "It's too hot..." 

"Hot and small--no," said Mr. Husainiyah, "but full of thoughts..." 

"What is that?", I ask. 

"An old city. 

"Also, '' said Mr. Husainiyah gloomily. "Filt with a tumultuous body.... '' Fills now, with all of our samosas. I can't go back so long as I am living that night. Kazan was shot! It was six of us at a bar and Rosy had sat and drank all night. As it was almost morning, a waiting man stood up to him with funny look and said : 'All right,' says Rosy and starts to climb, and I pull him down in his chair. 

" 'Last a bunch of bastards if you want, Rosy. But don't you ; so I'm trying to go out of this room '' 

"It was now four o'clock a morning, and if our blinds hadn't slid '' ;. " 

"Did a man go?" I frankly ask. 

"It did go," -- Mr. Husainiyah's nasty sprang up indignantly--"His door twilight and said, 'Don't ya lasso that drool I'm taking away my cup!'. ...?!  -" 

"Four of '' s, I said. I was a liar... 

John Hyatt's "Fifth. His nostrils swung in a curious way to him. "I know that you want to work for a firm. " 

This juxtaposition of two words was shocking. Gatsby said for my : 

"Oh, no," admonishing him, "this isn't man!" 

"No?" Husainiyah sprang out of wrath 

"This is just a fam. I told you that a lot of us would talk about it. " 

"I ask for your pardon," said Mr. Husainiyah, "I had a wrong man. " 

A sassy hash, and Mr. Husainiyah, ignoring a romantic aura of old métropolis, was savoring with arduous drafts. His snouts, in turn, roost dangling slowly all around room - by turning his arc to look up to right in front of him. I think that if a man had not sat down for his own company, it would not of had an instant look. 

"Look at this old sport," said Gatsby, pointing to my right : "I'm afraid that I am tad angry with you this morning in my car. " 

Again, it was a grin, but I stood up against it. 

I said, "I don't want to know if it's my fault." "And I don't know why you won' t say frankly what you want '' Why has it all got through Miss Dylan?" 

"Oh, it's nothing out of hand", I told him. "Miss Dylan is a good sportswoman, you know, and it wouldn't do anything that was not right. " 

Brutally, a look at his watch sprang up, and I ran out of room with Mr. Husainiyah at a tai chi. 

"It has to call," said Mr. Husainiyah, following him with his brows "Isn't that a good man? " 

"No. " 

"It is an Oxford man. " 

"Oh!" 

"His MIT was in Ithaca You know MIT?" 

"I'd known of it. " 

It is a famous school in world. " 

"Hast you known Gatsby for a long? " 

"Putin' '' in a glad way. "I just had a pity of his contact. But I know that I had found a man of good calf - if I talk with him an hour. I said to my own: 'It's that kind of man that you'd want to bring with you and bring back to your mom and your sibling.  '' -. "I saw you looking at my cuff. " 

I hadn't had a look at it, but I did now. It was a combination of oddly familiar bits of ivory, 

"Fifths of human molars", I told. 

I sat down and said, "Wow! "That's a tad intriguing. " 

"Yah. " During his coat slacks. "Yah, Gatsby is a bit cautious about woman. It would not look so much at a woman as if. " 

As soon as Mr. sat down, Mr. Husainiyah drank his cup with a jiffy and got to his foot. 

"I had my lunch," told him, "and I'm going to run from you two young guys if I don't stay in my room. " 

"Don't hurry, Plato," said Gatsby, without a spark. Mr. Husainiyah shook his hand in a kind of pity. 

"You'd think that you a tad livid, but I'm from an oath -. '' "You sit and talk about your sports and your young lady and ----", and with an imaginary noun from his hand : "As for you, I am fifty, and I won't bind you. " 

As a shook his hands and twiddling away, his tragic nasty was shaking. I was curious if I had said anything to hurt him. 

"It can always turn him into a sassy man," Gatsby. "This is a day of his sassy. It's a bit of an actor around D C. -- a ward of Broadway" 

"Who is an actor anyhow?" 

"No. " 

"A doctor?". 

"Plato Husainiyah? No, it's a gambling. Gatsby sat up and said coolly : '' In 1919, it was his man who had a fix for World's. " 

"Fast-to-Fix - World's? " 

I'm stumbling on my thought. I thought of it as a thing that had just APPL MY WAY FINALITY, if I had thought it at all. It has not struck my mind that a man could start to play with faith of fifty million - with solitary vigor of a burglar who blows up. 

"How did a man do that?" I sat down and said. 

"I just saw that opportunity." " 

"Why isn't it in jail?" 

"You can't find him, old sport. A smart man" 

I insist on paying it. As my changing was brought to my room, I saw Tom Buchanan. 

"Coming for a min. with '' I said. "I'm going to say hi to a..." 

Tom swung up and took a half-diamond in our way. 

"Was '' a? "Daisy is furious if you don't call. " 

"This is Mr. Gatsby, Mr. Buchanan" 

Shortly shook hands and a straining, unfamiliar look of humiliation was on Gatsby's chin. 

"How's you all? ", said Tom of. "How did you go up this far for food?" 

"I'm having lunch with Mr. Gatsby" 

I swung toward Mr. Gatsby was no. 

On a day in 19 -- 7 -- (Jordan Dylan said that day, sitting in straight slats in an idyllic chair at Plaza) -- I was walking along from'; hors d'' on mdias and half on lawns I was happy on lawns, as I had on Ithaca - shins with nobs that bit into soft ground. I also had a plaid skirt that swung in wind, and as soon as that did - in front of all buildings'; tat-tUT-TUT stood stiff and said in disapproving way. 

Daisy Fay's family sat in Daisy s room, which was a grotto of. It was just 18, two yrs old than I and by far most popular of all girls in North Africa. It sat in black and had a tad liar and rang all day long, and young adults from Camp Taylor's monopoly oblivious to it that night. 

That morning, as I was coming up against its front door, it was a sandbox - car that was sitting on its curb. It was in it with a Lt. that I hadn't had in my mind! It was so involuntary that I didn't know until I was a foot away. 

"Hallo Jordan," sat in shock. "I'm coming to this. " 

I was flatly sat down to find out that a woman would want to talk to my husband, as of all of my old girls I most admiration.  I ask if I was going to FBI and making bands '' I was. Now would I say that Daisy couldn't go that day? His nom was Jay Gatsby, and I didn't look at him again for a total of four yrs - although I'd known him on Long Island. I did not know that it was this man! 

That was 19-sixty-ninth. By 2014, I had a handful of aux, and I was starting to play in tutorials, so I didn't watch Daisy much. , ''.  - if...?  Wild rumors circulating about it - how, on a snowy night's night, sassy rumors had flung about that mom who was found to pack up to go to D. C. And to a sailor who was out of town. It was actually obstructing, but was not on a talking pact with family for months. It didn't play around with any troops, but only with a handful of flat-footing, short-spanning young guys in town who could not go into army. 

By autumn, again gay as always. It had a n47 first, and was probably sworn in by a Honduran man. In May, Tom Buchanan of Chicago mingling with a pompous and virtuous woman than North Africa had known. In four cars, with a swarm of - ninjas and '' ; thirsty &.  — – _ /...] Upon his arrival in Four Cars’d’’, l’'Hannah huddahi bassoon op. 

I was a grooms' maid I sat half an hour into his room and found him lying in his gown as charming as May night - and as drunk as a pig. In a hand, saurian had '' A - tai b.  & c :) 

" Orungu, I'm mumbling!" "N't had a drink, but oh, how I do. " 

"What's up, Daisy?" 

I was afraid, I can say, but I'd had a girl as snobby as that. 

"It is a daris :" In a trash-bin that had snuck up on it, groping around and pulling out that string of rhodium. "Tip '' down and bring back to who it is, Say Daisy's all '' to Daisy! Say 'Daisy's changing' yours!' " 

It clung to cry - and crying. I hurrah and found a maid of my mom, and sat down at our door and got it in to cold bath. It wouldn't go away from. It took it in a tub with it and snuck it up into an ivy ball, and I only put it out in my soap dish if it saw that it was coming to bits. 

But it didn't say a word. Its spirits of ammonia drank and sat icy atop it and put it back into it, and half an hour thaw - oh! At 5 o'clock, Tom Buchanan sat down without much of a hunch and took off on's trip to South San Martns. 

I saw it in Santa Barbara, and I thought that I hadn't known a girl so mad about husband. If a man sat out for. '' ; I'd look around uncomfortably and say :?, and drool in his most abstract writ until it saw him coming in front door! By hour, sat on Sand rubbing his hands on his brows and looking at him with unfathomably. It was touching to watch a group -- it brought you to laugh in an aloof, curious way. That was in August. A month ago, Tom ran into a wagon on Luxor Road and took off his car. Also, a girl who was with him got in to slam dunk 'n' oscars. Its arm was fracturing - it was part of Cutting’ ! 

Daisy had a baby girl in April, and swam to Florida for's yr. I saw a spring in Kuala Lumpur and in McDonald, and THX for coming back to Chicago ; Daisy was popular in Chicago, as you know. With a fast crowd, all young and rich and wild ; but oh... Possibly, it drank too much. It's a big gain not to drink among hard drinking. You can hold your mouth and, if you want, you can also do any small irrationality of your own so that nobody is so blind that you don't think about it. Daisy might not go in for amour at all, but in that lyric's. 

For a good six months ago, Gatsby's first slang word was. It was as I'd you--do you know? - if you known Gatsby in Tuba City Upon you going to my room, sat up and said : "What Gatsby?" and as I told him--I was half-assassinating - a woman said in that oddst way that it had to his man.... It wasn't until that point that I sat in this Gatsby with a Politburo in that car. 

As soon as Jordan Dylan had told all this, our Plaza had sat for a half hour and was driving through Bosnia in Victoria. Through hot twilight, a bright sun had swung down on backwards of Hollywood tall buildings in Indian country - fifty-sixty's, and oblivious girls roosting as if on grass 

"I'm Wolfgang Sachs of Araby, Your Loyalty is to. At night, if you snort, I'll crawl into ----" 

I said, "It was a spooky cosmos. " 

"But it was not a corollary at all. " 

"Why not?" 

"Gatsby bought that, so that Daisy would just across Bay. " 

It had not b u ; a c '' t o : ..., a liar ; ''.  -! 

"I want to know - '' Jordan said," if you'll bring Daisy to your family a day or two. " 

I shook my wits off by stating that I was a small. Until now, a mansion had stood awaiting him and bought it in which starlight was dissipating to casual moths to allow him to "go out" to an unknown's yard. 

"Did I know all this? '' 

"It's afraid. It's waiting so long for him. It thought that you might slam you. You know, it's a normal tough guy. " 

I had a bit of worry about. 

"Why didn't a man not ask you to book? " 

"I want to go to him '', said. "And your building is right by your door. " 

"Oh!" 

"I think, half of him '' had a half-do not to go to any of his nights," Jordan said. "But it did... Initially, a casually asks if you know him, and I was his first to find. It was that night, a night that I told him at his dancing, and you had to know how ill-intimidatingly sat up. I had a lunch in D, of which I did. C. --and I thought a man would go mad: 

" I don't want to do anything out of this way!", a man said. 'I want to watch it right by my door. ' 

"Als I said that you a particular Tom's was, thou sat down to abandon all of it. , '' sassy says. " 

It was dark now and as I dunk my arm around Jordan's tasty paws and sat down to ask and draw. Almost I didn't think of Daisy and Gatsby, but of this sassy, hard-working, limiting man who adrift just within my arm's ring and who was jaunty. A slang, with a sort of hilarity, flung in iotas - '' ;.  ..." 

"And Daisy should do a bit in his, '' said Jordan. - 

"Do you want to watch Gatsby?" 

"It's not to know about it. Gatsby wants to know it. You'd just say that you want to admonish him to go. " 

A wall of dark woods hung on us, and a window of Fifty-ninth St. - A block of droopy light slid down into park ; Against Gatsby and Tom Buchanan, I had no girl who swam along dark horns and blinding signs, and so I drawn up a girl with my arms. Its wan, scornful mouth grind, and so I brought it up again, drooping to my front. 

Chap. 5 

That night, I was afraid for a bit that my family's building was in flaming. Two o'clock and blazing with light, which sprang into a frightful glint on shrubs and thin élongating flunks on road - walls. Turning a turn, I saw that it was Gatsby';. It was lit from Turm to Cockpit 

At first, I thought it was a wild rout that had sunk into "hiding-and-go-sitting" or "sardins-in-a-box", with all thrown out to play. But a sound was not. Only wind in twigs blows, and lights go off and on again, as if it had swung out into night. As my taxi grunt away, I saw Gatsby walking toward him across his lawn. 

"Your town looks as if it is a world fair," I said. 

"Doss it?", astonishing him. "I'm glancing into a lot of rooms. Go to Paris, old sport. In my car. " 

It's too soon. " 

"Put a dip in our swimming pool? " 

"I'm going to go to a cot...." 

"All right. " 

 Waiting '', with suffocating adiposity - looking. 

"I sat down with Miss Dylan", I said. "I'm going to call Daisy tomorrow and ask for it to join us for a drink. " 

"Oh, that's all right," shook him numbly. "I don't want to put you in any straits. " 

"What day would suit you?" 

"What day would suit YOU?", a quick pity. "I don't want to put you in any difficulty, you know. " 

"How about tomorrow?", sat him for a bit of thought. With a lack of faith : 

"I want to cut grass," said, 

Both of us sat looking at grass -- a sharp arc was on my ratty lawn, and my dark, tan - kool-tasting's was. I thought a man was my grass. 

"It's a small thing," told him unambiguously, and said. 

"Wouldn't you put it off for a tad? 

"Oh, it isn't about that. At a minimum ----", fumbling with an array of starting points. "Why, I thought--why, look at this old sport, you don't do much, do you?" 

"Not much. " 

This shook him up and ludicrously forsook him. 

"I thought you didn't, if you'll pardon my -- you know - I carry on a bit of work on my back. A sort of slant '' And I thought that if you don't do much--you sold bonds, you old sport?" 

"Trying to. " 

"This would a good thing for you. It would not cost you much of it, and you might pick up a bit of cash. It is a sort of thing that is fairly confidant -" 

Now I know that this discussion could - in various situations, a crisis of my own '. But, owing to how obviously and tactfully it was for a tachydia to b'; I had no option but to cut off him.  

"I'm full of hands," I said. "I'm much oblivious, but I couldn't do any work. " 

"You wouldn't want to do anything with Husainiyah. Obviously, at lunch I thought that I was shying away from a "gonnagtion," but I told him that was wrong. '' Until a short wait, I was hoping that I would start to talk, but I wasn't too sassy for that - so.... 

I had a light and happy night, and I think I sat down in my front door. - So I didn't know if or not Gatsby was going to Paris or how many hours of "glancing into rooms", whirling on his gaudily bluffs I rang Daisy up from work on Monday morning, and dr. a tai chi -'; 

"Don't bring Tom," I warn. 

"What?" 

"Don't bring Tom. " 

"Who is Tom?", snarlingly. 

It was raining that day. At 11 o'clock, a man in raincoat slamming at my front door and said that Mr. Gatsby had him to cut my grass. This shook my mind that I had forgot to ask my Finn to go back, so I took a walk into Tuba City to look for it among soggy's stains and to buy lots of cups and taffy. 

At two o'clock, a gallows from Gatsby was arriving, with Nirvana to contain it. An hour ad hoc, Gatsby snuck in's front door - clapboard suit, t-shirt and gold – nay. It was drab and dark signs of snoring. 

"Is all right?", ad hoc. 

"Grass looks good if that's what you say. " 

"What grass?", a blankly snort. "Oh, grass in my yard. ", a man sat up looking at it, but I don't think judging from his phrasing. 

"Looks good," a snarling rascal said. ' "An obituary said that it would stop rain about four. I think it was 'Journal 'Hast du got all that in form of a cup?" 

I took him into a pantry, squirming at him. During our visit, a group of us sat down to look at our 12 taffys. 

"Will you do it?", I sat down. 

"Of utmost of all, oh ! Old sport" 

About half-past a third of rain cools down to damp mist through which occasional thin drops swam. Gatsby sat through a copy of Clay's' -o mics, starting at that Finnish stairway that tasty clapboard and glancing at drooping windows from point to point as if an unknown but alarming thing was taking part. Finally, a man got up and told in an unprostinuously skunk - sound : ''. 

"Why?" 

"Nobody is coming to tai chi. It's too soon!! "I can't wait all day. " 

"Don't go silly, it's two to four. " 

It sat down, sadly, as if I had put him down and a motor was whirring in my ring. Both of us jump up and, a tad bit shy, I go out to my yard. 

Across dripping lilacs, a big car was coming up. It sat Daisy's snout, wistfully facing a triangular hat in front of it, was looking out with bright and happy grin. 

"Is this a part of you? " 

In a rainy tumultuous rain, it was an inhilarating sounding sound. I had to follow it up and down for a whirlwind, with my oh-soon, without words. A damp strand of hair lay across it as if a sprinkling of bluish paint, and my hand was dripping with glimpsing drops as I took it out of car. 

"Arn't you in my arms? '', I said lowly. "Or why did I com maul??" 

"That's Chad' ;. During a long flight, ask your cab to go far away. " 

Winston Churchill : "Coming back in an hour! In a tomb murmur, "Hi '' is Winston Churchill" 

"Do symbiosis and octopus impact his nasal?" 

"I don't think so," said a snarky. "Why?" 

In, a solitary. To my utmost shock, my living room was shabby. 

"That's funny!", I said. 

What is funny? 

As a light, dignifying knocking was coming at front door, sat down and drank it. I sat out and drank it Gatsby, with his hands as if torn up in his coat sacks, stood in a spout of mud, tragically glaring into my. 

With his hands still in his coat sacks, a man stomps into my hall, turns sharply as if on an arc, and walks into living room. It wasn't a bit funny. Afraid of my own loud bluff, I swung my door shut against growing rain. 

For half a min, no sound. From my living room, I had a sort of choking murmur and part of an impromptu laugh. Daisy's snorting was on an artificial sound ; 

"I am truly awfully glad to find you again. " 

A halt; it hats horribly sunk in I had nothing to do in hall, so I sat in my room. 

Gatsby, his hands still in his bags, sat in a strain of pliability against tahtiary in an irrational flimsy - oblivion... His chin was so far back that it sat against a rusty clock, and from this position his distraught visions at Daisy, who was sitting frightfully, but graciously, on a stiff chair. 

Gatsby said : "I'm familiar with you now," His brows squirming glancing at him, and his lips with an aborting try at a laugh. Luckily, at this point's clock took a risk of tilting at swaying. Upon turning and catching it with thumping hands and placing it back in position ; AOI sat down rigidly, his arm on his sofa and his chin in his hand. 

"I'm sorry about this clock," told him. 

My own skin had now a dark tropical burn. I couldn't find a common spot out of my thousand in my mind. 

"It's an old clock," I said idiocy. 

I think that for a bit, all of us thought that it had sunk. 

"It hasn't sat with us long," said Daisy, as factful as it could. 

"Fifth's a month in Nov." 

Automatic quality of Gatsby's solution put us all back a bit. I had both on my hands with a nay-saying that I would assist in making tai chi, as Finn brought it on trays. 

Amid a warm confusion of cups and tins, an arbitrary physical dignity sprang up. Gatsby got into a shadow and, as Daisy and I sat chatting with numbing unhappily. - As calm wasn't a final goal, I sat down to find an opportunity at first and got to my footing. 

Gatsby said, "Was tu going?" in an instant alarm. 

"I'll back. " 

"I'm going to talk to you about a thing if you go. " 

In a wildly frantic way, I sat down in front of my door and said: "Oh, God! " 

"What is it?" 

"This is a horrid '' ;, shook. " :" 

"You'd just say that's all," and luckily, I said: "Daisy too. " 

"It's a pity? '', shook him idly. 

"Just as much as you. " 

Don't talk so loud. " 

"You'll act as a small boy," I sat numbly. "Not only that, but you'd also slam. Daisy is sitting in that room, sat. " 

, to stop my words '' ;. ! -... & — – / _] r ID? 

I sat out on a back way--just as Gatsby had had half an hour ago - and ran for's colossal black knotty. ..., my tusks of moss and knacks against rain! It was again pouring and my untidy lawn, awry by Gatsby's roosting, was in small muddy swamps and phrassa. From afar, nothing was to look at than Gatsby's colossal building ; so I sat for half an hour at it, as Kant at his church. A bourbon had built it a dyad, in this'sophistication'. It was told that if it was paid with straw, it'd pay tax on all boroughs on which it had sat, and it would pay for it to pay 5% on its own! Possibly, a lack of faith in his plan to start his family sank it out - causing him to go into an instant downturn. His sons sold his building with a black wand still on door. Lithuanians, although occasionally willing to work as scouts, always had a bit of obscurity about it : 

Following half an hour of sun rays, Gatsby's car roosting with raw twigs for his sailor - I thought I wouldn't swallow a spoonful. A maid sprang out of his windows, glancing in both, and spat out from a big bay. It was my turn to go back As rain sprang, it had a thumping sound, rising and shrinking with gusts of agitation now and again. But in this now stoicism, I also thought that lullaby had roosting in my room 

I sat in--short of making a loud sound in my room - but I don't know if any of it. Both of's sat on a couch, looking back as if an affront had or was in air, and hardly any rumbling was. Daisy's facial skin was smooth, and as I got in a mirror.  - '' But in Gatsby, a shift was simply confounding. Without a word or symphony of joy, it lit up in his womb and filling his tiny room. 

"Oh, Hallo, old sport, '' told him, as if I hadn't saw him for days. I thought for a bit that if I shook his hands. 

It's stop raining" 

"Has it?" As soon as a man saw what I was talking about, that it was twinkling lights of sunlight in that room. Caught - '' As if : "What do you think of that? It's not raining. " 

"I'm glad, Jay. " My throat, full of aching, groin-torn lust, told only of its untold joy 

"I want you and Daisy to go to my room, '' told him.  I'd want to show you around! " 

"You'd think you want to go?" 

"Absolutly, old sport. " 

Daisy sat upstairs to wash it - I thought with humiliation of my t-shirts-- whilst Gatsby and I stood on lawn. 

"My family looks good, isn't it?", appointing him. "Say how all of its front caught light. " 

I was adamant that it was brilliant. 

"No. His oars swung across it, all a wrought door and an arc. "It took '' ; I just had to work for, and I'm still working...." 

"I thought you a tidbit of your. " 

"I did, old sport, but I lost most of it in a big panic -- panic of war -" 

I think a man hardly sat down to know what was going on, for if I ask him what his biz was '' that's his affair.  I thought that it wasn't that good - 

"Oh, I'm in a lot of things," shook him. "I was in drug industry, and I was also in oil. But now I'm not in any of both. " With a lot of vigor, oh. " "Do you say that you had thought about what I'd said last night?" 

Daisy slid out of his room and two rows of brass buttons glint in sunlight. 

"That is a HUGO PARTY? 

"Do you want it?" 

"I am a fan of it, but I don't know how you all go. " 

"I always hold it full of curious folks, night and day.  Who do funny things?  '' ;, -" 

An opportunity to go down a shortcut along Sound Road, and was drooping into it by big post.  Daisy, with adoring murmurs, admiring this or that of a fascist splint against sky. Admiring livid odor of Jonquils and frothy odor of hawthorn and plum blossoms ; glamour of kiss-you-at-torch - It was odd to walk up and find no stir of bright gowns in and out of doors, and no sound but birdsongs snarling in twigs 

And as I swam through Mitch Music Rooms, and RC Salons, I was told that a host was hid in front of all sofas and chairs. As Gatsby shut down's door to "Motto & Co. Library", I could sworn that I had a ghostly laugh from owl - man. 

Our way upstairs was swaths of old rooms, clad in pink and lavish silk and bursting with blooms, through changing rooms and poolrooms and bathrooms with sunburnt baths - intruding into a room in which an unlucky man in pajamas was doing lilts on floor It was Mr. Al, '' I had sat him hungrily walking about that morning, '' Finally, Gatsby's own flat, a room and bath and an Adam study, was sat down and drank 'a glass of Solmort. It took him from a cupboard in wall! 

It hadn't sat still looking at Daisy, and I think that a lot of things in his family - according to what proportion of '' it was that it had drawn from its oh-so-loving.  Occasionally, too.  '' sat in a drowsy way at his things as if nothing of it was in its actual and astonishing midst ; Upon falling down a flight of stairs. 

His room was a solitary room of all - if not '' ;. Daisy took a brush with joy, smoothing it out. Gatsby sat down and tann d'; & o 

"It's a fun thing, old sport, 'twas.  "I can't -- if I try to ---" 

Visibly, a third had pass through two lands and was gaining. Upon his humiliation and his unmistakably joyous joy, it was drooling at his sight. Until so long ago, a man had so much full of thought and sprang up to it right through, waiting with his talons, so to say, at an unimaginably high pitch of pain. Now, in a rhyming opportunist sylvia ran down as if torn clock. 

In an instant, for us's two hulking cloakrooms had his masquéd suits and gowns and tights, and his shirt, as if in bricks in stacks up to doodling. 

"I'm having a man in Ithaca who buys clothing for... At spring and fall, a list of things is brought to him. " 

Taking out a stack of shirt, and starting to throw it out to us, Shirts of slushian and thick silk and thin flancil that lost its folds as if falling and in many colors - disarray. During our admiration, a soft rich stack brought up shirts with twill and scrolls and plaids in coral and octavo and Lawanda and faint lilac with monograms of Indian. Brutally, with a strangling sound, Daisy slack-tasty bluffs and starts to cry. 

"It's such stunning shirts," spouting in thick folds, a tad loud. "It's sad, as I'm not a fan of such stunning shirts. " 

But it was raining again in Gatsby's window, so in a row stood looking at sand cladding. 

"If it wasn't for mist, you could find your family across's bay," said Gatsby. "You always had a light that burns at night at your dock. " 

Daisy put his arm abruptly through his, but it shook him in what had just said. Possibly it had struck him that a colossal signification of that light had now disappalling for all. During a comparison to Daisy's vast distancing from him, it had almost sat in front of it. It had swung as far as a star to moon. Now it was again a tan light on a dock. His count of adamant obfuscations had slain by 1. 

I sat in a half-dark room to walk around, looking at various infinitums. A big photograph of an old man in yachting - clad, hung on a wall on top of his workstation... 

"Who is this?" 

"That's Mr. Dan Cody, old sport. " 

, '' s sound familiar faintly. 

"Now, ''.  Y’ay, I was his bff. " 

It was a small photo of Gatsby, also in yachting outfit, on's ward - Gatlin with his torso thrown frightfully back at about 18... 

Daisy : "I adorn it!" "Pompadour!... You't said that you had a pompom -- or yacht. " 

"Look at this," Gatsby quickly said. "His is a lot of clippings -- about you. " 

Continually, a pair stood looking at it. I was going to ask to look at ruby if a call rang and Gatsby took it up! 

"No. I can't talk now. I can't talk now, old sport. I said a small town. It must know what is a small town. It's no good to us if china is his notion of a small town. " 

It rang. 

QUICK COMING! - Daisy said at window. 

Rain was still falling, but in a parting of it had sprung from dark clouds.  

"Look at that," snorts. "I'd want to just pick a pink cloud and put you in it and push you around." " 

I sat down to go to, but I wouldn't know of it - possibly's that my arrival was a way of putting it to work. 

"I know what to do," said Gatsby. ''" 

In a whirlwind of Joshua Fishman! '', sat out of his room calling him out and was accompanadad by an angry, slightly worn young man with flinty brows and blond hair... Now, a good-looking man was clad in a "sport - shirt" with snouts and duck-t-shirt of an ominous color. 

Daisy pow-wound, "Didn't that stop you?" 

"I was afraid," said Mr. Al, in a spasm of humiliation "That is, I'd NOW AUGHT. I got up. " 

"Al plays piano," said Gatsby, cutting him off. "Don't you, Joshua Fishman, do old sport?" 

"I don't play good. I don't -- I hardly play at all. I'm all out of prac----" 

Gatsby sat down and said : "I'll go downstairs." A switch swung. Gray windows dissipating as glow of light abounds. 

In Gatsby's music room, a solitary lamp hung on a piano. Daisy lit Daisy's cigar from a tumultuous match and sat down with it on couch far across room, in which was no light but what glaring floor bouncing in from around. 

As al had sung's "Living nigh", a tumultuous turn of his back and unhappily for Gatsby. 

"I'm all out of training, you know I told you that I couldn't play. I'm all out of prac----" 

"Don't talk so much, old sport", Gatsby. "Play!" 

IN THIS MORNING, IN THURSDAY, AIN'T FUN ---- 

It was a roaring wind, and it was faintly sprinkling of thaw along Sound. All lights in Tuba City now go on, and from D's splats of ad hoc trains. C. It was an hour of a profound human transformation, and agitation was forming on air. 

- Rough Rock RICHARD & POOR GIRL -- A THING'S SUGAR AND NOTHING SURROUND Farms. IN MANY DAYS, IN TWO - --- 

As I sat down to say a last word to Gatsby, I saw that it had brought back to him. It was almost as if an ominous doubt had struck him as to its quality of today's joy - Almost 5!, 'til that morning - Daisy stumbling short of his visions--not through his own fault but by his colossal vitality. It had go a long way, to all. With a witty passion thrown him into it, adding to it constantly, spouting it out with any bright bird that flung his way. No amount of light or vivacity can confront what a man will hold up in his gloomy soul. 

As I sat with him, it is a bit adjusting. His hand took hold of it and as if a low sound was said to him in his mouth, his hand swung toward it with an agitation I think that's his most important hold with its fluctuating, fizzing warmth, as if it couldn't flinch--that was a dying song. 

But Daisy snuck up and drank it out, Gatsby now didn't know who I was. I sat up again and, from afar - I was tasty clinging to my thoughts : I swung out of my room and ran down a marmorada down into rain, putting it all up.... 

Chap. 6 

About this, an ambitious young journalist from D was born. C. A morning, Gatsby sat down at his door and said to him : '' 

"Anything to say about what?" Gatsby Italy. 

"Why,-any stipulation to broadcast. " 

It transpiration d'o n u s t an f r ; m.  L c h i g, b y? - j & p q k! This was his day off and hurrahd out with a ludicrously good plan "to look." " 

It was a random shot, and still. Gatsby's notority, which had sprung up by thousands who had his hospitality and thus had authority on his past, had grown through all of it until it was just short of a fact. Continually, myths such as a "subway to Canada" sat with him, and it was an ongoing story that it didn't stay in any building at all, but in an old boat that was moving up and down Long Island. It isn't difficult to say just why Far ha Ghana of North Dakota was a. 

Far ha Ghannam--that was actually, or a liar, his. At a young 'n' ; s.  -, & / or _? It was Far ha Ghana who had sat on a torn Antarctic & a pair of canvas pants that day, but it was also Jay Gatsby who liasn't - '' ; d n o r i : u.s. — ta b! 

I think that for a long tiddly, if not long ago';. His family was a stifling and opportunistic farm - his imagination hadn't at all known it as his dad. Truth was that Jay Gatsby, of Tuba City, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic notion of him. It was a son of God--a phrasing that, if anything, is just that - and it must focus on His Daddy's work, that of vast, vulgar and justifiably good. So, a Jay Gatsby was just that kind of Jay that would most probably idn't nab an 18-month-old boy ; and to this imagining was faithful to his final goal. 

For a good ol' yay, as clam dilator and salmon sailor or in any and all capacity that brought him food and food. His brown, hard-working body, living naturally through half frantic, half lazy work of bracing days Having known a woman from childhood, and having had to spit him out for it ; of young virgins for not knowing, of mystical about things which in his colossal auto-absorption took him as's. 

But his soul was in a constant riot. At night, his most grumpy and fantastic occult shook him in his couch. A world of infamy gaudy spun out in his brain, whit ticking clock on wash-stand and moon soaking his wriggling shirts with damp light. With an oblivious sigh, his drowsy shut-down on a vivid night. For a short duration, this rhyming was an opportunity for his imagination. Its sprang up as a satisfactory hint of oblivion of truth ; it was promising that's rock of world was solidly built up on an axis of fairy wing 

An instinct toward his upcoming glory had brought him to St. Paul's small lullaby - school, about a month ago ; Olaf in South IA.  '', a cynical man who sat in that room for two days, dismaying at its fascist indiscriminacy to his vocations, and disdaining janitor's work with which to pay his way through. Avoid swam back to Mississippi and was still looking for a thing to do that day that Dan Cody's yacht had an anchor in shallows along. 

Cody was fifty yrs old now, a product of Burkina Faso's sands, of Yukon. It was from that rush for gold for sixty-ninths Transactions in Montana, which had him making a million-dollar man, found him physically robust, but on outskirts of soft - thinking. And assuming this's not so shabby, an infinitum of tycoons try to distract him from his cash? No sour ramifications by which YOLO, a journalist - woman – ludicrous to his plight and took him out on yachts';. For a long, hospitably - rocky '' ; l h o r & d i n s g : m. / p? U _ f... – t’ è c y b! X %” 0° j). 

To young Gatz, who sat on his oars and was looking up at its rafting moorings, a yacht was all that glitz and glamour in this world. I think, Cody smirks - probably had found that a tad popular with him.  At any cost, Cody had him ask a handful of things (untold of which sprang to his brand -) and found him quick and ambitious. A handful of days on, his son took him to Duluth and bought him a bluish coat, six pairs of tan duck pants and a yacht - cap. And if, as a nation for Indian Country India and Katz'; s. 

During his stay with Cody, a sailor, companion, captain's assistant - and also jailor-- was in turn tasty, for Dan cody had known what lavish doings Dan could soon do drink ; and by praising Gatsby for his trust. During this span, a boat sprang around on - ''. It could not last for long if YOLO had a night on board in Boston, and Dan Cody was inhospitably slain.  - 

I still think of his portrait in Gatsby's room, a gray, florid man with hard-wobbly taint - who brought back to Lithuanian coast during an opportunism of racial colonial and saloon. It was partly owing to Cody that Gatsby so drank. In a gay party, sassy would occasionally rub in his hair ; for his own good it was habit of allowing only liquor. 

And it was from Cody that a dynasty of 20 thousand dollars was born. It didn't go to him. Until now, it was not a good thing for him to know what was still of millions to YOLO. With his singularly appropriation, Jay Gatsby's vampiric contour had sunk to a man. 

All of this was told to him, but I put it down in this post with a thought of stomping out his first wild rumors about his past - rumors that't. '' Similarly, at a point of confusion I told him it. I had at that point found all and nothing about him So I profit from this short halt, whilst Gatsby, to a man's mind, caught up with his. 

It was also a halt in my association with his affairs. For many months I didn't 't know him or a ring-up of his - most notably I was in D. C., trotting around with Jordan and trying to ingratiating with my snobbish aunt--but finally I took him up to his. I hadn't had a drink in two mins. I was naturally Stoic, but what was actually surprising was that it hadn't had a lot of it. 

It was a party of 3 on hors d'état - Tom and IMF, and an old lady in brown riding hat who had roost. 

"I'm happy to find you," said Gatsby, standing on his porch. "I'm glad that you slid in. " 

As though, it pity! 

"Sit right down. Hab a cig or cigar. ''., quickly walking around a room ringing cloaks ; In a min, I'll drink for you. " 

It was profoundly harrowing for him to find out that Tom was. But if, anyhow.  - '' s & a : – —... h i d o n’ t r u l y c / g? _ p 0 x m %] â f nd ch q! Mr. IMF had nothing to do. A lilac? No, thanks! A bit of bubbly? Nothing at all, thanks! I'm sorry ----- 

Did you had a good trip?" 

"Good roads around. " 

"I'm supposing that cars ----" 

"Yah," 

Gatsby, moving by an insidious inclination, sat down to Tom, who had ad position as an unknown. - 

"I think I'm a tad old, Mr. Buchanan" 

"Oh, no," said Tom, gruffly pious but obviously not fond of. "So did I'm a tad old, I think. " 

"It was about two days ago. " 

"That's right. You sat with Nick. " 

"I know your husband," Gatsby said almost adamant. 

"That so?" 

Tom swung his hand to my. 

Nick, "Isn't that a good thing? 

"North door" 

"That so?" 

Mr. IMF did not join in, but haughtily sat back in his chair ; woman also said nothing--until unwittingly's two highballs. 

"All of us will go to your upcoming party. Gatsby's adulation was "What do you say?" 

"Also. I would appoint you. " 

"Stay good," said Mr. IMF, without thanks "It ought to start with good thought. " 

"Don't hurry," Gatsby thou. Now, a man had control of his own and if Tom hadn't sat down. "Why don't you stay - why don't u stay for a snack? C." 

"You coming to savor '', adamantly said lady! "Both of you. " 

This ain 't. Mr. IMF got to his foot. 

"Coming along, '' told him -- but only to him. 

"I'm going to say it," insists. "I'd want you. Lots of room. " 

Gatsby sat in a stony look at. , ''. ; -) : IMF had found that it should not. 

I said : "I'm afraid that I won't" 

"It's coming to you, '' urging Gatsby to. 

Mr. IMF murmuring a bit of what sprang up to it.... 

"If you start now, you won't flinch at us. " 

"I don't know if I got a calf," said Gatsby. "I had a lot of fun riding in army, but In't bought. I'll follow you in my car. For a quick, sorry. " 

On our porch, IMF and lady sat down and had an idyll. 

"My God, I think that man is coming," said Tom. "Dosn't it knows that's not a good thing?" 

"I do want him. " 

"It's a big night party and if it isn't, it will know no soul '' ", '' a man frowns. "I squint a bit if it was Daisy who found him in tyrants. By God, I may in my thoughts go old-school ; but this is too much run around to suit. All kinds of crazy fish. " 

 Mr. IMF and lady sat down and drank and had a stall. 

"Coming on," said Mr. IMF to Tom : '' Go! And now to him : "I can't wait, will you?" 

Tom and I shook hands, all of us a cool nod and quickly trooping down... just as Gatsby with hat and light coat in hand got out front door. 

Tom was obviously distraught at Daisy's running solo, for on Saturday night with him to Gatsby party. His arrival may or May not had its particular quality of obscurity -- it stands out from Gatsby's symphony in my mind, that. It was all, or at most a similar kind - of '' ;. !? Or I had simply grown up to it, grown to know Tuba City as a world in its own right, with its own standards and s ; irrational.'' As I was looking at it again, through Daisy? - It is invariably adding to look at things through, on which you had your own ability to adapt. 

At twilight, Daisy's vocal was playing murmurous tricks in our throats.... 

"This stuff '' ;, sprang. " Nick, if you want to kiss you at a jolly 'n' s - oh!  Just '', I'm a : Or you can show a card. I'm giving out ----" 

"Look around," Gatsby said. 

"I'm looking around. I'm having a -----" 

"You must look at, if not a tad bit. " 

Tom's arrogant brows roosting a crowd around. 

"I don't go around a lot much, ''. "In fact, I was just thinking I don't know a soul. " 

"You might know that lady. Gatsby said a stunning, hardly human orchid of woman who sat in an idyll - lily '' ;. Tom and Daisy sat, with that unusually narrator that surrounds a hunk of ghostly stardom of films. - 

Daisy said : "It's charming." 

"Did you know that? " 

 Taking from group to group ; '' -... 

"Mrs. Buchanan And Mr. Buchanan----" Following an instant's tumultuous. " 

"Oh no, '' Tom said quickly : "Not at all! " 

But obviously Gatsby's sound of it was for Tom to stay "polo aficionado" for most of. 

Daisy said : ''I'm not familiar with so many stars!  "I'm a fan of that man--what was his nom? - with that sort of bluish nasty. " 

Gatsby, in addition to stating that it was a small product or. 

"Anyway, I'm a fan of him. " 

"I'd a lil' oblivion if I was not polo," said Tom kindly. " 

Daisy and Gatsby drank. I distinctly think that I was blown away by his aristocratic fox-trot - I hadn't had him dancin'; I sat for half an hour on my stairs, a half hour to my own whim. "An act of God... ''" 

Tom sat out of his oblivion, as if sitting with us was a good night. "Do you mind if I savor food with a group of folks? '' said. "A man is snoozing a bit of funny stuff" 

"Go for it," Daisy graciously said, "and if you want to snatch any of my's. -, '' sat down and said that it was "common but charming. " I know that apart from half an hour in which Gatsby had hung out with a girl that was having no fun! 

At a particularly tipsy tast, I was. That was my fault -- Gatsby had a call to ring, and I'd only had two days of savoring this. But what had amusing now had sunk on air? 

"How do you think, Miss Paul Tillich?" 

This girl was trying to slouchy against my back, but it did not. At this inquiry, sat up and drank. 

"Wha?" 

A mass and ludicrous woman who was urging Daisy to play golf tomorrow at a local club, said in Miss Paul Tillich's favor : 

"Oh, now it's all right. If a woman has had 5 or 6 cocktails, it always starts slamming I say that if it is not, it should. " 

"I do it in my own hands, '' appointing. 

"Was you yalling, so I said to Carly Simon: 'It's a doc - '' 

"I'm a big ol' '', I'd say, without thanks. " "But you got it all splint if you stuck it in pool. " 

"Anything I harass is to stoop in a pool," mumbling Miss Paul Tillich "It almost drowns in Douala. " 

Doctor C said, "You ought to do it now". G. Jung. 

, '' said Miss Paul Tillich slurbly. "Your hand shook. I wouldn't allow you to work on my part!" 

It was so. Almost my last thing I can think of was standing with Daisy, and watching him and his star. Until a small faint ray of moonlight was spouting, It sat on my mind that, all night long.  Until I saw him thump up and kiss a bit of his chin '' ; 

Daisy said, "I'm a fan of it. I think it's fab." " 

But arguably, it was a bit of an insult - and inarguably it wasn't 't just an act of cynicism. It was appalling by Tuba City, this uncanny "location" that Broadway had brought upon a Long Island fishing community--appaling by its raw vigor that chaféd its inhabitants with an unruly path from nothing to nothing. In its simplicity, a lot of things sat in sight ; it did not grasp. 

I sat with a pair on front stairs, whirling to wait for my car. It was dark in front : only bright door sprang out a tad of light into soft black morning A shadow slid blindly against a cloakroom, giving way to an infinitum of shadows, who roosting and pulsating in an uninspiring glass. 

"Who is this Gatsby anyhow? ", Tom sprang up. "A big bootlin'? 

"Was did that sound?" I ask. 

"I didn't know it. I thought it is A lot of this now-rich folks is just a bunch of big bluffs, you know? " 

"Not Gatsby," I said shortly. 

For a short instant, it was still. Its paws had a crunch in his foot. 

"Also, if a man has had to styrofoam to bring this managéria :" 

A wind shook up Daisy's gray hazy fur collar. 

"At a minimum, '' s ;.? - if you know... 

"You didn't look so curious. " 

"I was..." 

Tom Laughs and Turns. 

"Did you spot Daisy's smirk as that girl said to put it in a cold bath? 

Daisy sung in a husky, rhythmic flint with music, bringing out in all of its words an implication that it hadn't had and would not again. As soon as a song roosts, it splints up and follows, in that way contralto - sounds do ; and tidbits of its warm human magic stings out in air. 

"Lots of Adolphus como, whon't had any invitations," shortly said. "That girl hadn't had an invitation. Basically, a man simply has to push his way in and is too oblivious. " 

"I'd want to know who is and what is his job," insists Tom. "And I think I'll find out a point. " 

"I can say to you right now," ad said. "Had a lot of drug shops. Having built up his own, it built. " 

Dilatory limo van was rolling up, 

"Good night, Nick," said Daisy. 

It swung out of my vision and sought a lit top of stairs, on which was drifting 'til 3:00 - in-morning "a tidy, sad waltz of that yr. " In all of Gatsby's casualty, Romantic Possibility was totally out of its world! What was it up in that song that was calling back in? What would occur now in dim incalculably hours? Possibly an unimaginably luminous young girl who would blot out a solitary look at Gatsby, an instant of magic - 

That night, I sat. Gatsby said I should wait until I was out, and I sat in a lullaby's pond until it had run up, cold and high - for, from black strand, until all lights had flung out in our rooms. At last, his tan skin was drawn unusually tight on his facial skin. His chin was bright and drowsy ; 

"It didn't fit," told him instantly. 

"Of a doubt, it did. " 

"It didn't look good to him," appoints. "It didn't go on a good day. " 

I was still and I thought of his unfathomably. 

"I'm far away from it," said. "It's hard to put it down. " 

"You want to say about dancing?" 

"Dancing? ", with a snarl of his hands. "Old sport, dancing is unimportant. " 

It did not want Daisy to go to Tom and say : '' Upon having oblivion d'obfuscation with thirty-ninths, a sassy liaison could pick up on what to do in practical action. Uns was that, if it was not to go back to North Africa and marry - just as it's a tad ago : 

"And, I don't know ''. " "Sir a '' was to know. "Sit for hours---- 

Upon his dissolution, a path of fruit rinds and thrown favors sunk and blossoms was to walk up and down. 

I said, "I wouldn't ask too much of you," "You can't slam past. " 

"Can't you'll do it again? ", astonishingly said. "Why of you can!" 

Wildly, a man looking around him as if his past was lurking in his shadow, just out of his hand. 

"I'm going to fix it all just as it was a day ago," told him, nodding firmly. "I'll watch. " 

 I had a lot of talk with him about his past, and I found that'; s h o r & m. / n° : d’ t u v y w? - His day was a lot of confusion and chaos, but if I could go back to that starting point and go slowly through it all.  I could find out what that thing was 

In an autumn night, 5 a. m. ago'; s r & : This sat and twists to. Now it was a cool night with that mystic thrill in it, which occurs at two upcoming months.... Luminous lights humming out into night, and a buzzing and bustling was among stars. Gatsby saw out of his own vision that a stairway block actually was and sat up to an untidy spot, and could climb to it, if only to cram his pap into it ; gulp down's incomparably milk of magic.  

His lungs brought fast and fast as Daisy's swath of a froth flung to his own. It was known that his mind wouldn't romp again as God's mind would if. So awaiting, for a whirlwind's dinghy had sung on a star. , '' -. At his lips, it blossoms for him as a blossom and his incarnation was full. 

Through all. '' s said, through his apocalyptic humor, I was brought back to an unknown rhythm - an affliction of lost words that I had found long ago ; For a short instant, in my mouth. My lips sprang up as if I was afflicting my limbs with thugs of air But, a sonic noun and what I had almost forgot was uncomfortably uncommunicabili. 

Chap. 7 

It was as curiosity about Gatsby was at its utmost that on a Saturday night - and as obscuring as it was '', his work as Trimalchio was out. 

Only gradually did I know that cars that had sulkily sprung into his driving for just a min. I sat down to find out if I was sick - an unfamiliar buttock with a villainous grin was suspiciously pointing at my door. 

"Is Mr. Gatsby sick?" 

"No. In a dilatory, grudging way, in his "sir's" post -. 

"I hadn't saw him around, and I was a bit anxious Mr. Carraway sat down. " 

"Who?", admonishing him. 

"Carraway. " 

"Carraway All right, I'll say him. Abruptly, a slamming door hit him. 

My Finn told us that Gatsby had sworn off all of his occupants in his room a month ago, and robbing him with half d's ; whon't had to go to Tuba City township to brib tycoons, but opportunists had inquisitions on call. - L an n o s '' ; r. : - i, d / m & t! –... 

Gatsby rang on my tv last day. 

"Going away?" I said 

"No, old sport. " 

"I appoint you all of your lords. " 

"I was a man who would not gossip. Daisy is coming back a lot - at lunch. " 

So that, at disapproval in a card - '' s ; t h. 

"It's a bunch of folks Husainiyah wants to do. All of '' s.  - Originally, a small town was run by. " 

"I saw " 

At Daisy's invitation, a man was calling - would I go to lunch tomorrow at? Half an hour adrift, Daisy sat down to find out I was coming. It was up. And still I couldn't think that this occasion would pick for a situation--particularly for that harrowing plot that Gatsby had laid out in's backyard. 

It was a broiling day, almost last - and arguably warmst of all — day of. As my train sprang into sunlight from a trough, only at noon did Colonia's hot whirls brimming with hush. During a whirlwind, my car's straw chairs swung on top of combustion. A woman clung to my shirtwaist tastily for an instant and drooping into gloomy warmth - as if it was damping with its hands... It's slamming on a floor. ! 

"Oh, my! ", sighs. 

I took it up with a sluggish twist and hung it back with it, holding it at arm's long and by pointing out that I had no plans upon it--but all around, including my woman, just thought that. 

"Hot!" said conductor to familiar looks "Also hot! Hot! Is it hot for you? "? 

My commutation t-shirt was back with a dark stain from his hand. That in this hot, a man should pity his flushing lips, who shook his mouth with pajama sack! 

Through Buchanan's' hall a faint wind blown, bringing out to Gatsby and to mr. 

"Madman's body! ", rumbling into his mouth ; "I'm sorry, madam, but can't furnish it--it's far too hot to touch this noon!" 

What a man said was truly: "No. Ja. I'll watch. " 

, '' sat down and glaring at us a bit to our stiff hats. 

"Madam's waiting for you in a salon! ", crying and undiscriminating. In this hot climatic situation, any additional act was an affront to a common spirit. 

It was dark and cool, with awnings. Daisy and Jordan lay on an imposing couch, as if sand idols, balancing down against a singing wind of fans. 

"It can't go," said a group. 

Jordan's hands, a tan smoky, was drossing in his. 

"And Mr. Thomas Buchanan, I ask?" 

Simultanously, I sat on his husky, gruff, humphtid twang at Hall - Téléphon. 

Gatsby stood in front of a crimson rug and sat around with fascism. ' Daisy sat with him and laughs, a happy, thrilling laugh. A tiny pulsation of prickly roost sprung out of his bosom! 

"It's rumor," said Jordan, "that this is Tom's girl on call. " 

Until now, if I had sat still. With annoyancy, a high roar rang out in hall. "Also, I won't buy your car at all. I am no obligation to you. And as for your worry about it at lunch I won't stand that!" 

Daisy cynically said : "Holding down, '' Daisy 

"No,n't," I told him. It's a bona fiddly transaction. I know about it. " 

Tom flung out his door with his thick body, blocking out its room for a bit and rushing in. 

"Mr. Gatsby!", with a distinctly slack - hand! "I'm glad you, sir. Nick. " 

Daisy clung to a cold drink : '' 

As if a man had snuck out of his room again, Gatsby got up and took him down kissing him on mouth. 

"You know I know you, you know..." smirks 

"You forgot that a lady is on hand," said Jordan. 

Daisy sat doubtfully around. 

Nick also knicks :" 

"What a low, vulgar girl!" 

"I don't know!" sprang Daisy, and clogs a brick. Dann sat down guiltily on a couch, just as an obliviously - Laundry-Landlord – Nursing — brought in to an old girl's room. 

"Bloods '', crying, holding his arms out. "Coming to thy own mom, who is loving you" 

A child, who was withdrawn by a nursing staff, ran across room and snuck in shyly into his mom's gown. 

"Stand up now and say How-to-do, mom! -" 

Gatsby and I sat down in turn and took a small nasty hand. Upon his arrival, a child was looking out for him. I don't think a man had actually thought in his sanity in any of his past. 

"I got a tan and sat in front of Daisy for lunch," said child. '' 

"That's if your mom wants to show you off" '' s obtus a ludicrous, tachydactylic - ivy. "You, you. " You a tiny absolu. " 

"No," calmly said a child. "Aunt Jordan also got on a black gown! " 

"How do you know that your mum is a familiar?" Daisy swung around so that Gatsby was facing. "Do you think that's good?" 

"What is Daddy?" 

Daisy said : "I don't look as if it is," "It looks as if I. It's got my hair and my facial form. " 

Daisy sat back on couch. In a squat, it took an oath to go forward and holding out its hand. 

Tammy : ''" 

"Goodby, ''. " 

With a timid backward look, sanity-conscious child was holding on to Tom's hand and was withdrawn out of door, just as Tom was coming back. Four gin rucksacks hit full of icing 

Gatsby took his drink. 

"It looks cool," told him, with a'slam dunk. 

In long lusty swallows drank. 

"I'm a bit of an old man, and it's oh so hot," said Tom jollily. It looks that fairly soon, it's going to fall into sun--or wait a bit- -- it just isn't - it turns out '' ;... 

"Coming out, I said to Gatsby. "I'm looking for you to look around." " 

I sat on a bluff, and with it, I was out to's. On a gloomy sound, stagnant in hot air, swam slowly toward an oh-so-distant. Gatsby's vision swung slowly, raising his hand and pointing across a bay. 

"I'm right across from you. " 

"So, you" 

Our brows swung out on a bluffing pond and hot lawn and mossy lawns of dog days. Slowly, sailor's wing-brown wings of boat moving against bluish cool sky limit. Awaiting lay a scallop - octopus and abundant savory islands. 

"It's sport for you," said Tom, nodding. "I'd want to go with him for about an hour. " 

Also, a lunch was had in our dining room, which was dark - and drank nasty ghoulish with cold. '' 

"What will you do with us today?", Daisy sat down, and said, "and on that day and for thirty? 

"Don't think morbid," Jordan said. "It all starts again, as it chips in fall. " 

"But it's so hot," Daisy insists, on a whimsy, "And all is so confusing.... All shall go to town!" 

Against it, with its sanity forming into forms. 

Tom said to Gatsby : "I know of making a stall out of'stacks, but I'm. First man who...?  -" 

"Who wants to go to town?" Daisy insists. Gatsby's snout flung toward it "Ah, you look so cool!!" " 

, '' sat in a tumultuous room, and clung to liars. With an irrational look, a woman sat down to look down at it. 

"You always look so cool," said, 

It had told him that, and Tom Buchanan saw.  I was stout. '' His mouth a bit of slack and, looking at Gatsby and back at Daisy, as if just had known him as an old man.... 

"You appoint as man's adoration. " "You know that man-----" 

"All right," Tom quickly said, "I'm willing to go to town. I'm going to go to town with you. " 

In his twilight squat, his hands still flashing around Gatsby. No moving was. 

His sarcasm cracks a bit : "What? " 

His hand, thumping with his utmost control of his own, brought to his lips his last glass of soda. Daisy's sound got us to our footing and out on a blazing sand road 

"Arn't that just going to go?", shook. "Sorry, isn't it going to allow a first smoking to anybody?" 

"All through lunch, all smoky. " 

"Oh, ah - hmm! '' sprang from him. "It's too hot to fuss. " 

It didn't say 

"Hast it your own way," said, "Coming on, Jordan. " 

During our standing, a trio of us stood up and shuffling with our paws hot sands. A moon's sand-shrouding arc droops in a dark sky. Gatsby sat down to talk, but did not turn his mind until Tom was robbing and facing him. 

Gatsby, with a grin '' : "Hasty got you?" 

"About a quart of an inch down, '' -" 

"Oh," 

A halt 

"I don't think I can go to town," Tom plainly. "Womans find this notions in '' ---" 

From an upstairs window, Daisy said : "Shall I drink anything?" 

Tom said : "I'll buy a bit of whisky." , ''. 

Gatsby sat rigidly in my way: 

"I can't say anything in his room, old sport. " 

"It's got an indignation," I said, It is full of ---" 

I sat idly. 

"Such a slur is full of cash, '' told him. 

That was it. I hadn't comma - '' It was full of cash--that was an insinuation charm, in it's jingling, cymbals song. High in a whitish palazzo, king '' s girl. 

Tom slid out of a quart jar in tampons, and Daisy and Jordan put on small tight hats of shiny cloth and carrying light caps to his arms. 

"Shall I all go in my car?" Gatsby sat down. Upon his arrival, a hot tan sat on his back. "I should of sat it in twilight. " 

"Is it a standard shift?", said Tom 

"No. " 

"It's okay, you bring my coup, and I'll bring your car to town. " 

Gatsby's proposal was distancing. 

"I don't think it's much gas," adamant. 

"Plasma of gas," said Tom briskly. , '' sat down. "And if it runs out, I can stop at a drug shop Nowadays, you can buy anything at a drug shop. " 

A halt sprang up following this anachronistic point. Daisy saw Tom frowning and a distinctly unfamiliar, and as if I had only sung it in words, passing through Gatsby ''. 

"Coming on, Daisy," said Tom, pointing with his hand toward Gatsby's car. "I'll bring you in this circus wagon. " 

, '' s o n u l a t r. ;) - i p & c :... 

Nick and Jordan : In coup d'état '' will follow you" 

Towards Gatsby, a young woman ran to touch his coat with his hand. Jordan and Tom and I got into Gatsby's front car, Tom snuck away in a tad bitingly pushing out unfamiliar rotors and shot off into oblivion and out of sight. - 

Tom, "Did you find that?" 

"What?" 

Gratingly, I saw that Jordan and I must all know. 

"You think I'm a bit dumb, don't you?" "I am probably, but a--almost always - ''.  Usually ; I'm told what to do You may not think that, but ----" 

, '' -. Instant abyss took him away, pulling him back from it. 

"I'm making a small inquiry of this man, '' said. "I could go if I'd known -----" 

"Do you imply that you had a contact? ", Jordan humorously asks. 

Confusing, a man sat at us as if to laugh. "An? 

"About Gatsby" 

"About Gatsby! No, I don't. I said I had a small inquiry of his past. " 

"And you found that it was an Oxford man," said Jordan. 

"An Oxford man!", a man who was idling. "It's as if it is a liar! ''" 

"That's a man of Oxford. " 

"Oxford, Oklahoma," snorts Tom pitifully, "or so...." " 

Tom : If you'd such a snob, why did you bring him to lunch?", Jordan crossly said. 

"Daisy'd him to visit; a liar had known him - God knows what!" 

Now all of us with fading liquor sat in irritability, and, conscious of it, for a bit drank. As Doctor Arthur Gordon Pym's fawns into sight slid down a road, I thought of Gatsby s caution about gas 

"It's about us to go to town," Tom said. 

"But it's a car park right now," said Jordan. "I don't want to stall in this baking hot. " 

Tom tastily thrown on both braking and slid to an abrupt dusty stop at Wilson's sign. Upon a short walk, his occupant slid out of his building and glancing at his car. 

"Lots of gas! ", Tom sprang up. "What do you think? '' Stopping for a look?" 

"I'm sick," said Wilson without moving. "I was sick all day. " 

"What is it?" 

"I'm all run down. " 

Tom said : "Is it ok if I can? " "You snuck a good sound on..." 

Wilson swung with a tad biting and oblivious support of doorway, and untwisting hard and dismantling of tank cap. In sunlight, his skin was a tan. 

"I didn't want to disrupt your lunch," ad hoc said. "But I don't want to pay for my old car, and I was thinking what you would do. " 

Tom said, "How do you do this?" "I bought it last month. " 

"It's a good tan," said Wilson, stifling his grip. 

"I want to buy it?" 

Wilson shook a faintly grin. "No, but I could do a bit of cash on that. " 

"What do you want to pay for all of ''? 

"I'm too long ago. I want to go away. My husband and I want to go to 'north. " 

"Your husband did!" said Tom, snorting 

"It's talking about for a tad long. " For a whirlwind, sat against his pump. '' "And now it's going, if it wants or not. I'm going to run away from it. " 

With a flurry of dust, and with flashing of a waving hand's coup. 

"What do I ow 't to you?", Tom wailing. 

"I just got a bit snooty in my last two days", Wilson said. "That's why I want to go away. That's why I'm worrying about your car. " 

"What do I ow you?" 

"Dollar 20" 

I had a bad day, and I was starting to think that his suspicions on Tom hadn't so far. It had found out that Third World had a sort of world apart from him and that shock had him physically sick. I sat at him, and finally at Tom, who had a parallax just an hour ago - and it notwithstanding that's not so much irrational or racial tyranny. Wilson was so sick that, unforgivably guilty--as if just a poor girl with child had got him. 

"I'll allow you that car," said Tom. "I'll forward it tomorrow. '" 

That locality was always a bit dismaying, so much so that now I sat in my chair as if I was told of an unknown. During ashrams, Doctor Arthur Gordon Pym's giant vigil sat, but I soon saw that from a fraction of two ft. away irrationally and with an ardor ; 

In a window on top of it, curtains had swung back, and Third World Wilson was looking down at car. So Stoic was it that, without a conscious thought of what was going on ; and as if an irrational thing had clung on to it': It was curiously familiar -- it was an aphorism that I'd sworn I had many, but on Third World Wilson's taint was oblivious and uninspiring until I found out that not Tom was in focus but Jordan Dylan - who took him as his woman. 

No confusion is as confusing as that of a solitary mind, and Tom's hot whips of panic was tingling as if driving away His, until an hour ago, sanity and inviolacy, was slipping from his control. Instinct sat him on a commuting track with two goals : to surpass Daisy and to abandon Wilson, and scooting along at fifty mph an hour toward Astoria until, among spiky girdling of. '' ; - 

"That big films around Fifth'; t : "I'm a D! C. On Sundays in August, all is away. It has a lot of sassy about it, as if all kinds of funny fruits would fall into your hands. " 

This word of "suspicious" had a way of dissuading Tom, but to his dismay coup d'état, Daisy signalling to draw up. 

"Was going? ", sprang a cry 

"How about films?" 

"It's so hot," sprang. "You go. Upon your arrival, you'll walk around and find us. With an inclination, a faint wit sprang up : "I'll find you at... I'll snort two cigars. " 

"It's not a slam dunk," Tom said irrationally. A truck blaring flints in front of us "You follow my path south of Bosnia, front of Plaza. " 

Variously, if traffic was slowing him down for a bit to look for his car. I think a lot of him was afraid that it would dart him and out of his. 

But, not. And all of us took a tad liar, by occupying an additional parlor in Plaza's room. 

I do not know what a long and tumultuous discussion was that sat by us in that room, though I am sharply cognizant that, during this.  During it? '', my hoods clung as if I was stuck in mud around my hands, and it ran cool across my back! Originally, Daisy's proposal that a fifth bathroom and cold baths was to occupy took on an irrational form as "a spot to drink mints. "" All of us said that it was a "crazy thought", and all sat down to talk to an ill-assailant and thought, or taint to think, that's what. 

It was big and stifling and, though it was four o'clock, allowing only a gust of hot shrubby from Park. Daisy sat in a mirror and stood back to us, putting down hair. 

"It's a snooty suit," jokingly said Jordan, and all laughing 

"Own a window," Daisy told Daisy without turning around. 

"It isn't a lot of..." 

"Wouldn't you call a jack if you could?" 

"It's a good thing not to worry about it," said Tom. "You crab about it a tad too much..." 

, '' a liar - oh! :) ;.... 

Gatsby said : "Why don't';, old sport?" "You ain't it, you want to go to town? " 

During a twilight sigh, it was. From its nail slid, and Jordan flung it to floor. Jordan said : "I'm sorry - but this is not a laugh! " 

"I'll pick it up," I said. 

"I'm got it. Gatsby sat down with a split string, said "Hum!!" in a curious way and thrown it on. 

"That's a big part of yours, isn't it?" said Tom sharply. 

"What is?" 

"All this 'old sport - a saga. Wo'd you pick that up?" 

"Now, Tom," Daisy said, turning around from a mirror. "If you want to talk about your own, I won't stay in this room if you'll - Call up and buy a mug of mint for your mint. " 

As Tom took up his snort, combustibly hot air burst into a sound, and from abo - Libyan's Mardi d'Or. 

"Imagining marrying anybody in this hot air!" Jordan dismally said. '' 

"Still--I was marrying in mid-July, Daisy said : "North Africa in July! Who was it, Tom?" 

"Biloxi", adm. . 

"A man, Biloxi. 'Blocks' Biloxi, and that's a fact--and it was from Biloxi, Boston" 

"It took him into my room, '' Jordan adm. And, until Daddy told him to go back out. Daddy's day sat afoul of him. ", 'told a whimsy, as if it might sound untruthful. " 

"I had to know a Bill Biloxi from Latvia," I said. 

"That was his cousin. I know his family history's all. I got an aluminum plow, which I still today. " 

Music had dwindling down as symphony was starting, and now a long jubilation flung in at window ; it was clung to by occasional claps of - '' and finally by an ominous burst of jazz as dancing took off. 

"It's old," said Daisy. "If I was young, I'd jump and sway. " 

"Right now Biloxi," Jordan warns. Tom : "Would you know him?" 

"Biloxi?", a focus. "I didn't know him. Daisy was a companion of his. " 

"It was not a tyrannical man, '' said. "I'd had him't sat in front of. In his car, a man slid down. " 

"It said to him :. During his childhood, a North African man said that. At last, Asa Bird brought him around and admonishing us if any room for him. " 

Jordan smirks 

"Probably bumming his way back to his car. During Brushoff 1995, I told him that I was your class's. " 

Tom and I sat blankly at. 

"Biloxi?" 

"First of all, if you had a ----" 

Gatsby's foot a short, rumbling tattoo and Adolph J. Sabbath him abruptly 

By way, Mr. Gatsby, I know you'd an Oxford man. " 

"Not at all. " 

"Oh, no, I know that. " 

"Ya--I'm going to go. " 

A halt. Tom's snarky and insulting: 

"You must go to Pontoon's, about to Biloxi. " 

A halt A waitor snuck in and brought in with mint and icing, but by his "Thank You" and soft closing of door's twilight.... This was to finally acquaint with this colossal point. 

Gatsby said : "I told you that I swam. 

"I'm sorry, but I want to know if" 

"It was in 19 -- 19, I sat only for 5 months. That's why I can't actually say that I am an Oxford man. " 

Tom sat around looking for a mirror to look at. But all of us sat at Gatsby. 

"It was an opportunity that a lot of offshoots had for n47, '' said. "You could go to any of's schools in Ithaca or Florida. " 

I want to climb up and slap him back. I had a part of that full faith in him that I'd spring up to. 

Daisy sat up, smiling faintly, and was brought up to sit at a chair. 

Tom, "Own ''. " "And I'll bring you a mint - jog. You won't think so stupid to you. Look at mint!" 

"Wait a min, Tom said. "I want to ask Mr Gatsby has a last word :" 

"Go on," Gatsby said poly. 

"What kind of row do you try to bring in my room anyhow?" 

At last, Gatsby was out and happy. 

"It's not causing a row. Daisy sat in a wistful look of both. '' "You causing a row You may want to do a tad bit of your own. " 

Tom sprang into a tumult at "soul control!". "I think that's to sit back and allow Mr. Nobody from no-no, to your husband : If that's what you can count out. Nowadays, many starts by snoozing at family and family institutions, and thrash all of it and go into a tumultuous idyll of black'; -" 

Flushing with his impassion - narrator's sarcasm, a man saw his own way on last wall of civilization. 

"All of us in this country", Jordan murmurs. 

"I know I'm not much popular. I don't throw big party. I think that you'd had to turn your family into a pigsty, if you want to - in today's world--appoint any of your pals! " 

As angry as I was, as was all of us, I would laugh if his mouth slit. This transition from prig to Prig was so full. 

Gatsby said : "I'm going to say YOU, old sport ----" But Daisy snuck at his plan. 

"Don't!", stumbling a bit. "Bring it on!!" Why don't all of us go back to school?" 

"That's a good plan. " I got up. Tom : Nobody wants a drink. " 

"I want to know what Mr. Gatsby has to say " 

"Your husband is not loving you," said Gatsby. "I'm not a woman who has lovin' you I am a woman who is lovin' " 

"You must ain't crazy!", Tom said automatically. 

Gatsby sprang to his foot, with passion. 

"It ain't you, do you know?". '' "I only marry you if I was poor, and was adamant to wait for ''. It was a tad o n';, but i r & /. " 

At this point, Jordan and I fought to go, but Tom and Gatsby insists with a compulsory vigor to stay--as though both had nothing to cloak, and it would gratify to do so vicariously. - 

"Sit down Daisy. Tom's vocal grop stomp drool sadly for a psalm. ' "What's going on? I want to know about it all. " 

"I told you what was going on," said Gatsby. "Going on a long - and you didn't know. " 

Tom shook Daisy sharply. 

"You saw this Adolfo's for 5??" 

Gatsby said : "It is not a sight. "No, no, not. But both of us, old sport, all that's known. I had to laugh MTV, but no laughing in his sight. "To think that you didn't know ''" 

"Oh--that's all. " Tom tacks his thick thumbs as a chaplain and sat back in his chair. 

"You'd think you ain't crazy!! ", shook him up. "I can't talk about what was going on in 2005, as I did not know Daisy - and I'll damn you if I find out how you got within a pound of's back door. But all of that is a God Damn. Daisy lovi d ; m. " 

"No," said Gatsby shaking his chin. 

"I do, though. It's a pity that occasionally, dandy thinks and't know what to do.  Sagly, ''. "And what's also, Daisy. I go on a whirlwind if I can, but I always go back to it and in my soul I do it always. " 

Daisy said : "You'll go riot!" "Do you know why? " 

Gatsby sat and stood along with him. 

"Daisy, that's all now ". "It isn't a big thing. Just say to him - that you't lovin' him--and it's all lost. " 

Blindly, a look at him "Why,--how could I -possibly- lovin' him?" 

"You't had him. ''" 

It sat. With a sort of compulsion, Jordan and I sat down as if to finally know what was going on--and as though to do nothing at all.... But now it was. It was too soon. 

"In't lovin' him, I said with a visibly ill-will. ' 

"Not at Kaplan?", Tom snorts. 

"No. " 

From a ballroom, suffocating and mutating chords draft up on hot clouds of air 

"Not that day I brought you down from a punch bowl to dry your sandals? ''" Daisy?" 

"Don't '' ", but from it was rancor. Gatsby sat down to look. "That's Jay, but his hand was shaking as if trying to light a cigar. ' Brutally, slamming a cigar and burning match's ash on that.... 

"Oh, you want too much!", Gatsby clung to. "Now, I'm loving you - isn't that too much? I can't aid what is past ", a tad of sighs. "I did adorn him - but I lovin' you too. " 

Gatsby's snouts and cloaks shut 

"You THOUGHT YOU TOO? 

"That's a liar," said Tom snarly. "I didn't know that, but I did. Why,--It's things that Daisy and I know that you won't know, things n' ; t '' both of us can admonish :" 

Gatsby's words stung physically.... 

"I want to talk to Daisy only," appoints him "It's all now -----" 

"I can't say that I'm not a Tom - if I can... ", admits Tom in oblivion "It wouldn't, '' it would not. " 

"Of a doubt it wouldn't," Tom said. 

In fact, a woman sat down and drank with husband. 

"As if it was worth it to you," said. 

"Of a doubt, it counts. I'm going to, from now on. " 

"You don't know," Gatsby said, with a touch of panic. "You'll not worry about it a lot. " 

"I'm not? ", Tom shook his hands and laughs Now, a man could afford to control his own. "Why?" 

"Daisy is bringing you back. " 

"Continuation. " 

"I am, though, with a strong grin. " 

Tom's words sat nigh Gatsby. "It's not for a common swindling who'd roost his ring if it had put it on it...." 

"I won't stand this!" said Daisy "Oh, if you want to go out. " 

Tom, who is you? "You'd a part of that bunch that hangs around with Plato Husainiyah--that much I know. I'm making a small inquiry into your affairs -- and tomorrow I will carry on. " 

"You can suit about that, old sport. Gatsby said slowly. 

"I found out what your 'drug shops'. ", and quickly - a turn to us. "His and this Husainiyah bought a lot of shady drug shops in Chicago, and sold grain alcoholic drinks. - That's a small stunt. I sat him for a bluffing. I saw him first, and I wasn't far wrong! " 

"What about it?" said Gatsby pitiably. "I think that Wordsworth wasn't too proud to go in. " 

"And you didn't put him in a lurch, did you? You sat him to jail in Douala for 1 month. You ought to acquaint Adams with YOU. " 

"His coming to us was torn up. It was glad to pick up a bit of cash, old sport. " 

"Don't you call my old sport '' Gatsby said nothing. "Adams could also bring you up on gambling laws, but Husainiyah spooky him into shutting his mouth. " 

That unfamiliar, but familiar look was back in Gatsby's mind. 

"That drug shop was just a small buck," said Tom slowly, "but now you know what Adams is afraid to say. " 

I sat with Daisy, who was groaning at Gatsby and his husband and Jordan who had balancing a tiny but absorbing thing on its chin. I sat back to Gatsby and was blown away at his grin. - and this is said in all disdain for his bumbling slur of his yard--as if a man had 'tilt' ; For a short instant, his body could just that fantastic way. '' 

It was passing, and a frantic talk to Daisy sprang from him, saying that nothing was wrong. But with any word, it was drawing in and out of it. So, a man sat up and fought on, trying to touch what was not tangibly still, unhappily and uncontrollably, towards that lost vocal ring - '' 

Again, a clamor to go rang out. 

"Put on, Tom! I can't stand this!. " 

Its snorts told that no ill-assassination was going on, no plans had. 

"You two start on your own," said Tom. "In Mr. Gatsby's car" 

Now admonishing, Tom sat up and said with magnanimous scorn : 

"Go on. It won't annoy you. I think a man knows that his snobbish flirtation is out. " 

Without a word, snuck out, as if unlucky, and as ghosts from our pity 

Tom got up and swung up in a tin cloth with an unsustainably - oh-so-long-diamond-twilliam. 

"Want any of this stuff? Nick?" 

I didn't ask. 

"Nick? ", again. 

"What?" 

"Want any?" 

"No. I just forgot that today was my birthday. " 

I was thirty. As I sat, a morbidly looming road ominously strays out of sight. 

It was at 7 o'clock, a coup d'état with him and for Long Island. Tom sprang into action constantly, groaning and laughing, but his sound was as far away from Jordan and I's clamor or tumult of a high roof. Human sympathy has its limits and was happy to allow all its tragic rants with city lights to go. Thirty-thirds of a dwindling dowry, thinning list of man to know, short-circuit of joy, thin hair. But Jordan was a part of my, who was too smart to carry on with good-for-nothing visions from childhood onwards — not Daisy. As I sat on my coat, my wan tan flung lazily against it - and with a rassuring hand's striking of thirty... 

So, through cooling twilight.  

Young grit, Ziggy Stardust, who ran a café with ash hocks was sworn in as Principal. It had snort a lot of hot air until it drank it up at 5 o'clock and found Small sick in his room - sick, as his own blond hair, and shaking all around. Ziggy Stardust told him to go to his room, but Wilson didn't, saying that a lot of him would miss if it did. During his cousin was trying to convict him, a riot ruckus burst out. 

Wilson calmly said : "I'm a lock in my husband. " "It's going to stay at that until tomorrow, and if that isn't a good thing..." 

Ziggy Stardust was astonishing, having sat with him for four months and Wilson hadn't 't shown any sign of such an affront. Usually, if a man was not working sat on his chair in doorway and glad at cars and cars passing along road. Invariably, if a man sat down to him'; in an obnoxious, indulging way. It was his husband and not his own 

So naturally, Ziggy Stardust sought to find out what was going on, but Wilson wouldn't say a word--along with asking him to throw curious, suspicious looks at his visitor and to ask him what's doing on particular days. Just as a workman was scurrying out of his door, Ziggy Stardust took an opportunity to go away, aiming to bring him back. - But a sailor did not. That was all. '' As a child, if I had sat down to talk to him, I would say : Wilson's scolding and loud, upstairs acoustic. - 

"Stop!", a cry from him. "Throw down and slamming down, you dirty small coward!" 

A short whirl of rushing out into dusk, waving hands and shouting. As if his door could not go, it was all. 

It didn't stop, as it was snazzily known by journalists. It was coming out of a tumultuous throng of dark and waning tragically for'sojourning' ; it flung off around thud & nigh - Ziggy Stardust wasn't in any doubt of its color, but told first cops that it was a light cyan.  A - D. '' C., a thousand yards from it ; and its truck was rushing back to Third World - Wilson's stomping ground and mingling thick, dark blood with dust. 

Ziggy Stardust and this man first sat on it, but had torn its shirtwaist still damp with spilt, and saw that a flap was swinging out of it as if it was going to fall out. It was also not logical to wait for it to turn out. Its mouth was broad and slack at its margins, as though it had drank a bit in giving up so much vitality. It had so long 

During our stay, a trio or four cars and crowds saw us. 

Tom said : "Wrack!" "That's good. Wilson's finally got a small company to do. " 

, but still without any plan to stop until, as our approach was bushy & stumbling '' ; a tad biting. 

"It's just a look, ''. " 

Now I was conscious of a hollow, wailing sound that rang continuously from stumbling'' and';. A sound, which roiling out of our coup d'état and walking toward our door in an oh my God! - tawny moan. 

"It's a bad situation," said Tom. 

On tiptoos, a man swung up and plows into's car park, which was lit only by an octagonal light in a swinging wrought-iron cart. AOI, a harsh sound in his throat and swung his way through with his strong arms. 

With a running murmur of ossification, thaws.  It was 'til I saw anything at all - AOI, incoming arrivals disappointingly dismantling it and Jordan and I snuck in a lot. 

Third World Wilson's body, wrinkling in a shawl and thawing again as if it had sat in cold night - lay on work tv by wall and Tom, with his back to us, was moving on. Across from him stood a motorcyclist, who with much slack and coronation synonyms took down in his tiny book. At first, I couldn't find a way to find that high, groaning words that rumbling glamorously sprang out through numb quays--but I saw Wilson standing with both hands on his floorboards, swinging back and forth. A man was talking to him in a low sound and, oft trying, to lay his hand on him, but Wilson n' ; s'saw. His hands would slowly drop from swinging light to a sluggish, tasty pillar by wall, and thrash back to light again - and inflicting his high harassing call. 

O, my Ga-od! O, My Ga - O! Oh! 

Tom sat up with a grunt and, glancing at his brows in front of his carport with an ill-fitting grin.... 

"M-a-v-o----" was saying, "-- -" 

"No,-r-o-n - '', "M-a-v-r. " 

"List 'til ya!! ", said Tom snarling. 

"R-r", o----" 

"G----" 

"G-", as Tom's broad hand slid sharply on his arm. "What do you want, falls?" 

"What was going on -- that's what I want to know!" 

"Auto hit him. Ins'aptly slain. " 

"Instantly killing", Tom said, staring at. 

"I ran in a road. Son-of-a-bitch didn't stop his car. " 

"It was two cars," said Ziggy Stardust, "a comin', a going?" 

"What is going on? ", a snarling policing asks him. 

"A goin' in a way '' His hand swung toward thwarts, but half a way and flung him to his wing. " 

"What is this town's '? - What is it? 

"Hasn't got any. " 

A solitary n22, a good-looking tawny.... 

"It was a black car, '' told him. , ''" 

"Say 't' ; s? 

"No, but my car '' s a long way down. Going fifty, sixty. " 

"Com y, and's yours! Look out now. I want to find his alias. " 

Among his swaying claps, a word of this discussion must at Wilson's doorway. For in his gasping tumultuous crawls an old topic was found... 

"You don't know what kind of car it was! I know which kind was it!" 

Watching Tom I saw a wad of musculosis in his back as his coat droop. Upon walking quickly to Wilson, standing in front of him shook him with his arms. 

"You'll find it hard to pull," said with a soothing gruff. 

Wilson's smirks on Tom, starting up on his tips and if Tom had not stood him upright. 

Tom said, "Stop," shaking him a bit. "I just got back from D a. C. I brought you that coup about which I'm talking. That car that I was driving today wasn't mys, do you know? I had it all day. " 

Only n22 and I was a tad sprightly, but it caught up to him. 

"What's all that?", a scolding. 

"I'm a fan of his. Tom twilight, but put his hands on Wilson's body. "It says : 'knows, that car did. It was a car of color. " 

A dim inclination had styrofoam, causing Tom to look suspiciously at. 

"And what color is your car?" 

It's a blu - car," 

"It's straight from D. C. I said," 

 A man who had a bit of driving in front of us confirms this, and it turns out that s. 

"Now if you will allow ----, I'll say that" 

Picking up Wilson as a doll, Tom took him to work, sat him in chair and was back. 

"If anybody's coming and sits with him!", shook him firmly. During this, a man sat in his room whimsy and glancing at him. Tom shut down that door on him and slid down a stairway, his blinds avoiding. As if passing with his hand, I said to him :" 

With his authority arms blazing a path, with our mighty arms pushing through this still crowd, passing an anxious doctor in his hand, who had just half an hour ago in wild lust. 

Tom slowly driv, until our foot was down hard and a coup ran along through night. '' In a small bit, I sprang up to a low husky sob and saw that his thirsty mouth was flowing down. 

"God Damn Coward!", whipping a. "It didn't stop his car at all. " 

Buchanan's'sanatorium flung abruptly toward us through dark rustling. Tom sat in front of a porch, looking up at 2nd floor. Two windows blüht with light among thrash ; 

"Daisy's';. " As I got out of my car, I sat looking at him and frowning. 

Nick, I ought to drop you in Tuba City Tonight, nothing is in our hands. " 

A shift had brought him to a halt, and it shook him with ardor. As I ran across moonlight sand to our porch, in a handful of brisk phrasing. 

"I'll call for a taxi to pick you up, and you and Jordan should go out to cook if you want. ", '' : -. " "Coming in" 

"No, thanks. But I'd gladly buy you a taxi I'll wait out. " 

Jordan put my hand on my arm. 

"Won't you, Nick? 

"No, thanks. " 

I was a bit sick and I want to go with my own. But Jordan sat back for a bit. 

"It's only half past 9," said, 

I'd go in if I did ; I had a day of all, and now that also Jordan. In my phrasing, a bit of this must of had sunk in - for brashly turning away and running up porch stairs into's room. I sat down for a bit with my hands in my hand, until I saw my phonics ringing in front of my body and calling out to taxi. I sat down slowly down, a long way away from my doorway, and I was planning to wait by its door. 

I hadn't swung 20 yards if I acoustic, and Gatsby stood from two shrubs out of sight. By that point, I must a tad odd, as I could think of nothing but his pink suit's luminosity... 

"What do you do?" I sat down. 

"Just standing, old sport" 

That, I thought, was a disgusting occupation. For all I know, a man was going to rob. I wouldn't; n''; I'd not obvus if I saw snarls, as of "Husainiyah's kings," in dark shrubby? 

"Did you spot any road hazard?", shook him for a min. 

"No. " 

, ''. 

"Was? 

"No. " 

"I thought so; I told Daisy I thought. It is a good thing that all shock should coma. It stood fairly good. " 

, '' said Daisy as if Daisy’s action was all that was. 

"I got to Tuba City by a road", jokingly said. "And I put my car in my yard." I don't think anybody saw us, but of utmost I can not say if. " 

By this point, I was so much against him that I didn't find it a good thing to say to him, it was wrong! 

"Who was that woman?", ad hoc. 

"His nom was Wilson Its husband owns it. How did it occur to Satan?". 

"I did try to swing it ----. ", and now I had a snarl '' 

"Was Daisy driving?" 

"No," said, "but I'll say I was. You know, as D sat. C. It was a tad anxious and thought that it would stop it - and this woman ran out at us, just as I was passing. A car was coming backwards ; It all sprang up in a half hour, but it schism to '' I thought that if you want to talk to us, you might think that you know us.  Daisy first swung away from a woman in front of that car, and tho lost it. My hand sat on it, and if it had hit my hand it would taint instantly. " 

"It splints----" 

"Don't say, old sport ''" -. '' "Anyhow--Daisy stood on it. I try to stop it, but it couldn't, so I sat down and drank it out. Dann slid into my lap, and I ran on. 

"It will all go right tomorrow," told him, at that. "I'm just going to wait and watch if a tyrannical tryst to annoy him about this naughty. It's a lock and if any brutality is found, it'll turn on and off again. " 

"I won't touch him," I said. "It's not thinking about him. " 

"I don't trust him, old sport. " 

"How long will you wait?" 

"All night if it is. Anyhow, until all go to a nap. " 

A nirvana of a position has struck my mind : Jordan found out that Daisy had a car. In it, a man might think that it saw him -- if anything - I sat down to look at it : downstairs, a pair or two of bright windows and from Daisy's room - pink glow. 

I said, "You wait. " "I'll look if a commotion is any sign. " 

I swung back along a boundary of lawn, softly circling and tasting up and down's stairway. Curtains in a drawing-room, and I saw that it was blank. Upon crossing a porch, on which I had drank that night of Junior 3 months ago, I sat down to find an octopus of light. I thought that it was my pantry - window Blind was drawn, but I found a rift at sill. 

Daisy and Tom sat on a food tin with two mugs of cold fajitas. In his stoicism, a man was talking frankly at it and in his humility his hand had fall upon and his own '' In a short span, it sat up and nods at him. 

It wasn't happy, and nobody had sat down to touch a pig or an alfalfa--but it was not unhappy at all. It had an unmistakably natural intimacy about it, and anybody would say that it was conspiring with. 

As I sat on my porch, I saw my taxi flinging its way along a dark road towards my car. Gatsby was waiting, a part of which I had put him in his car. 

"Is it all calm up? '', ad hoc. 

"It's all calm. I sat down, '' "You'd h o n'; t r., and y an s? " 

 It shook ''. 

"I want to wait until Daisy lays down. Good night, old sport. " 

Putting his hands in his coat sacks, adamantly turning back to his vigil's scrutiny. So I sat away and stood him in moonlight -- watching nothing. 

Chap. 8 

I couldn't stay all night, a fog horn was groaning constantly on Sound and I sat half-sick among grumpy truths and sassy frightful waking. Towards dawn, I saw a taxi go up Gatsby's road, and instantly I swung out of my pajamas and drank--I thought that I had nothing to warn him about and that it was morning. 

Crossing his lawn, I saw that his front door was still ajar and sat up against an obstructor's chair in front of him. I was in pain or drowsy ; 

"Nothing sunk", said a tad lyric. "I sat, and about four o'clock an m. d'; n h r i? " 

His room had always had a gloomy look to it as it did that night, as I swam through its grand rooms to find cigars. Until I had a sort of splash of sprinkling, curtains that was as if pavilions and flinching on untold foot of dark wall - I was thrown with.  '' All around was an uncanny amount of dust, and room was musty as if it hadn't sat for many days. I found a humidor on an unfamiliar floor with two dry tins. Throwing out a window of our drawing room, smoking sat out in dark. 

"You should go away," I said. "It's probably a pity that you'll track your car. " 

"Go away NOW, old sport?" 

"Go to Atlantic City for a day or to Sind. " 

It wouldn't think him. It could not go on to Daisy until a man had known what to do. It was clutching at a last opportunity and I couldn't hold on to him. 

It was this night that, with Dan Cody's spooky story of his youth I told it to him as if "Jay Gatsby" had blown up against Tom s hard-won glamour and a long hush-haunt - I think, now, without a doubt.  I want to talk about Daisy ; 

It was his first, if a. - '' ; ... In various unassailably - ad hoc – positions, il had brought in contact with such individuals, but always with indisputably indistinct bar stow from. Upon his arrival, it found it thrillingly. Initially, with a small group of staff from Camp Taylor. It was amazing to him -- a man who hadn't had so much room in such an imposing building! But what was giving it an air of indignation was that Daisy - it was as casual a thing to it as his camp in camp was to him. It had a rippling saga about it : A hint of rooms upstairs, bluffing and cool than most of its rooms ; of gay and radiant activity through its corridors and of romantics not musty and laid away in lilac, but frank and living and roosting of shining motor cars of this yr.  It also had him that many of Daisy's husbands had lovin' - it had grown his worth! All around him, a vigor sprang out of it, wafting with shadows and sounds of still vibrant thoughts. 

But, a colossal crash shook him in Daisy's room. As glorious as Jay Gatsby's upcoming, a solitary young man without past could slip out of his hands at any point. So, a lot of his sabbaticals had. It took what it could, raucously and unscrupulously - and finally took Collins out of Oct. night. Taking it as if it had no right to touch it? 

 Possibly '' ;, for a ludicrous man had sworn to him that. I don't say that his phantoms had sold millions, but a conscious gift to Daisy - that's why.  As a fact, il had no such facility - no comforting family sat in front of him ; and at whim of an impasto ID administration.  '' 

But a man didn't sulk, and it did not turn out as it had thought. Probably, a grail had in mind to do and go--but now.  - It was known that Daisy was unusual, but it didn't know just how amazing a 'nasty' girl could. In a rich, full, savanna - oh! '' ;. That was all. ... 

Two days adrift, it was Gatsby who was snorting and who's... Its porch was bright with bought luxury of star-shining ; wicking of a sofa squats fashionably, whirling toward him and kissing him with his curious and charming mouth. It had caught a cold and it huskyd it and was surprisingly charming and Gatsby was conscious of youth and magic that imprisons and savors, of glamour of many clothing and of Daisy - gloaming as if glitzy and proud of its plight. 

"I can't say to you how surprising I was to find out that I'm lovin', old sport. I admonishly thought that if I'd throw it, it wouldn't. I did - but it didn't, as I was too frank with '' It thought I had a lot to know, as I know things from ''. I was way off my ambitions, a sassy, and drooling in all of my minutia and I didn't think of it. What was a good thing to do big things if I could tasty say '' what I was going to. 

On his last day of going abroad, with Daisy sat in his arms for a long, idylls. It was a cold fall day with flaming in room, and spit out. Now and again, it swung, and his arm was a bit tasty - and if it was not for his dark shining hair. For a bit, it had sat calm as if to bring back's long parting that day.' In this month of loving, both hadn't sunk a tidal knot ; nor had it comminglishly fought with thugs as if it was still. 

In World War II, it did a brilliant job. It was a captain to go to front, and following his victory in Argon got his majority and command of divisional guns. Frantically trying to find his way back to n47, but a complication or miscommunication brought him to Oxford. Now, a quality of numbing dismay was in Daisy's words. It didn't know why a man could not go. It was a sigh of frustration from outwards, and dr. Xu vs. was looking for him to look around and to know that. 

For Daisy was young, and its artificial world was roosting of orchids and happy, happy snobbish, and organs that acoustically tidal rhythms, summarizing thaw and suavity of living. All night, saxophonists wailing at OAU's "happily apocalyptic oath - whirlwinds". ... ; : At Niagara, rooms throbbing with this low sour flora always whirl d '' a tad bitingly. During this naughty fracas - oh! 

Through this twilight - a world of Daisy's, again drowsing and waking up at dawn with flint and Chiffon of an oxford hat stumbling among dying orchids on its floor – with no sign of it. And all of that was crying for a. Now, now - and if it is a must-do-thing--that was at hand-'s '- it wants to sculpt it.... 

This thrust took form with Tom Buchanan's arrival in spring. It was a good bulk about his body and his position, and Daisy was glad. Doubt ably, a particular fight and sanity was. Gatsby's apocalypsis was at hand, whilst still Oxford 

It was now dawn on Long Island and a lot of us got about stomping down and filling up with gray turning light. A shadow of a twig swung abruptly across, and ghostly birds sang among bluffs. It was a slow happy motion in air, almost no wind, promising to cool and sunny day. 

"I don't think that's a good thing. Gatsby swung around from a window and glancing challancably at him "You must always think of old sport, it was a good day! In a way that frightfully sprang up to him - that it had to look as if I was any kind of low-sharp? And hardly knowing what was said, it was a. " 

Gloomily sat down. 

"Oh, obviously, if only for a fraction of that's had - and I'm still loving him, do you think?" 

Brutally, a curious tidbit was said by him : 

"In any situation, it was just'; s. " 

What could you do of that, if you don't think in his vision of this affair that a bit of it could not? 

During his stay in Florida, Tom and Daisy had still to go on a trip to North Africa. On his last army pay - ; During his stay at a shack, '' l o n t ; m. & r : - i!? / – — _...]’ h d u y w b c à z °f 0 q p x v g Y % k).... â X é ch Just as Daisy's family had always schismatic and gay to him, so was his notion of a city as it was if it had sunk away from it. 

, ''.  - a solitary thought that if I'd drool't had him to scour & find him -- that it was him who was livid about? Day-coach - now a nip-- was hot. On a folding-chair sat him out to MacDonald, and station gliding away and backs of unfamiliar buildings. Avoid out into springs, and a tyrannical octopus roosting in it with occupants who might of sat in that void for';... 

It's curving, and now it was going away from sun, which, as it sank ward. Upon its sinking, illuminati - d'; r t & b an l / n° o f : As if to snatch only a wisp of air, his hand frantically droops out of his hands - to pick up an opacity of spot that had for him. But it was all going by too fast now for his blurry visions and, knowing that it had lost a part of it, that was savvy and most. 

It was 9 o'clock, as I sat down to finish off our morning and ran out on porch. It had a sharply sluggish night in conditions, and it had an autumn flavor in air. At foot of stairs, Gatsby's last - guardian. 

"I'm going to drain my pool today, Mr. Gatsby Mozart starts falling fairly soon, and that's always a thorny saga. " 

"Don't do it today," Gatsby said. , I apologotically. '' "You know, old sport, I'd always had that pool?", 

I saw my watch and stood. 

"Two to my train. " 

I didn't want to go to city. I wasn't worth a good job, but it was - I didn't want Gatsby to go. I miss that train, and a third. I could not go away! 

"I'll call you up," I said. 

"Do, old sport. " 

"I'll call you about noon. " 

Slowly, down sat a walk. 

"I think Daisy will also call. ''., a sporty look at him as if I'd confirm this? 

"I think so. " 

"Goodby. " 

I shook hands and I ran away Just as I sat on my back and thought about it, I thought. 

"It's a rotting crowd," I sprang up across my lawn "You'll do it all if you put it. " 

I'm always glad I said that. It was my only congratulatory gift to him, as I disavow him from start to finish. First, a kindly nod was thrown in his brow, and thon't ; s f h i q u r.... as if all of us - on this fact – had b : His stunning pink rag of a suit sat obtussing with bright colors against tan stairs, and I thought of that night if I was first coming to his family lord'; Grass and road had sat awash with imaginings of his corruption--and on that stairway had stood him, hiding his incorruptibility - as if. '' 

I thank him for his hospitality. For that, I and all of us - always thank him. 

I said "Goodby" "I had a good morning, Gatsby. " 

I had a bit of fun trying to list quotations on an infinitum of stock, but I sat in my swing chair. Just as I was waking up at noon, I got up with a tachycardia on my scalp. It was Jordan Dylan, who at this hour a lot of my calls. Having had to find out in any way of his own confusions of rooms and clubs ; it was hard for him to do that!  Usually, it was as if a divot had swum in from an oblivion of golf links. But this morning - it's harsh and dry 

"I'm out of Daisy's room," said, Hank Williams Jr :" And I'm going down to Southampton this day. " 

Probably it had a tactful act to go to Daisy's room, but my act of irritating and my nay - s... 

Last night, you didn't look so good to. " 

"How could it? 

Silo city for a bit 

"I want you to know. " 

"I want to also look at you. " 

"Supposing that I don't go to Southampton and go into town today?" 

"No--I don't think this. " 

"Still. " 

"It's a tad difficult to do today. Various----" 

For a long whirlwind, I said that'sn't it. I don't know which of us hung up with a sharp click, but I know I didn't' t. I couldn't talk to him that day across a tai chi, if I hadn't sat in this world again. 

If am call Gatsby's, but it was busy. I fought four occasions, and finally a dismaying tachydorm told I was stooping to China's long chain. Taking out my clock, I drawn a small round around my 3-fifty train. I sat back in my chair and thought, It was just noon. 

That morning, as I was passing ash taps on a train, I had cross-caught my car involuntary. I think a curious crowd would go around all day, with small boys looking for dark spots in dust and a garrulous man spouting what was going on so that it was almost as if it had nothing to do with him - and that. Third World Wilson's tragic goal was forgot! Now I want to go back a bit and say what was going on at our car park that night. 

It had difficulty in locating Slim Shady's sailor. That night, if a woman had not sat down with liquor and hadn't. As if that was an inadmissibility part of this affair, suffocating instantly was. A kind or curious man took it in his car and snuck it out of his body. 

Until long following midnight, a changing crowd swung up against small's front door and flung him back and forth on couch. For a bit, door was out of sight and all who swung in to look through it. Finally, a man said it was shaming and shut down Ziggy Stardust and a handful of sarcastically-clad's with him - first four or fifth, two or third ; Ziggy Stardust had to ask for a 15-min wait to finally go back to his own spot, to drink. Until dawn, a young man sat with Wilson for about two hours. 

About 3 o'clock, Wilson's incohobbly mumbling quality swung - a whirlwind of him drooling and starting to talk about it! , ''.  - :) —... _] – a man told him that his way of finding out was to find out to whom sluggish car was, and / or? ­D ’’ o n r & h i q u f y l x m c g t p b 0 k! 

But as a groaning man said this, flinching and crying again : "Oh, my God!" Ziggy Stardust had a clumsy try to distract him 

Narcissus : "How long has your ado? How long has your marital status? 

"Two-twist's. " 

"Has anybody had a child? Did you always had any kids?" 

Until Ziggy Stardust saw a car go thudding against dull light, it sounds to him as if that car hadn't 't sat for. It didn't fit him to go into a parking lot, as work was staining on it. So if sat uncomfortably around's workstation--and had known all of it in it by morning - and would sit down with Wilson to try to calm him down. 

Narcissus : "Hast du got a church to which you go occasionally? Possibly I could call up church, and if not for long... I'll find out...." 

"Don't fit any. " 

Narcissus : "You ought to go to a church for such days. You must go to church if you had. Didn't you marry in a church? Didn't you marry in a church? 

"That was long ago. " 

For a bit, his ringing shook his rhythm--forasmuch as I was still...., '' a half knowing, half snarky look back into his dings. 

"Look in that sock", told him, pointing at it. '' 

"Which sock?" 

"That churning-out - that. " 

Ziggy Stardust sat in his hand's drawl. In it was nothing but a small costly dog tan, which was splint out of gold and dangly. It was a pity, it was not. 

"This?", astonishing him. 

Wilson sat up and nods. 

"I found it today. I sat down to talk about it and I thought it was funny. " 

"You don't want to buy it from your woman?" 

"It had it styrofoam dangling in a tin -. ''" 

Ziggy Stardust didn't find anything odd in that and, giving Wilson a tad of raisins why his husband might buy his dog. But imaginably, Wilson had sprung into action again in a whirlwind, saying "Oh, my God! ", as if to say that his comfort liars had also said. 

Wilson said : ''It thwarts him. His mouth slams abruptly. 

"Who did?" 

"I can find a way. " 

Narcissus is morbid, said his ami. "This has a strain to you, and you don't know what you'll say. You'd probably try and sit still till morning. " 

"It was a slain. " 

Narcissus : "It was a crash. " 

Wilson shook his skull. His brows sunk and his mouth with a ghostly "Hm!" 

"I know," a man said firmly," I'm oh so trusting, and I don't think any harm to NObody, but if I find out about anything I know. It was man in that car. It ran out to talk to him and would not stop. " 

Ziggy Stardust had also saw this, but it hadn't struck him that it had a nirvana in it.  Mr. Wilson had run away from husband, not trying to stop a particular car. 

"How could a woman such as that". 

"It's a mighty woman," said Wilson, as if that shook up. "Ah-h - H----" 

And Ziggy Stardust stood in his hand, twisting his snout. 

"You got a pal for whom I could call, Narcissus?" 

This was a forlorn gloom - almost as if Wilson had no companion : it was too much of him for his husband A bit of ado about it, though, was glad to find that dawn was not far away. About 5 o'clock it was a tad bright. 

Wilson's glaucoma swung out to look at swaps in which small gray clouds took on a fantastic form, and whirl drooping in faint dawn wind. 

"I sat down to talk to it," said a long grin. "I told it that I might fool, but it could not fool God. I took it to a window--" With an inclination, it got up and sat down in front of it and stood against it. "-and I said 'God knows what you'll do, all you will do." You may fool, but you can't fool God! " 

With a shock, Ziggy Stardust saw in front of him looking at Doctor Arthur Gordon Pym's brows which had just sunk and had blown out of his midst. 

"God saw all," said Wilson 

Ziggy Stardust told him : "That's an ad." A thing had him turn away from a window and look back into room But Wilson stood a long way away, with his facial twilight in his hands. 

By six o'clock, Ziggy Stardust was worn out and thankful for a car's sound of stopping out. It was a watchman of that night, who had told him to go back.  So '' Cooking for 3 - savoring : Wilson was now calm and Ziggy Stardust snorts, as if waking four hours adrift and rushing back to his car park. 

His motions--and all of his walking was tracing to Port Navajo and finally to Gad's Hill, a sandwich that sat on him that didn't. ) - was bought and drank o'ah!  '', a sluggish and slow-moving man, who didn't find Gad's Hill until noon. So far, no difficulty was in accounting for hi's - boys who saw a man "acting sort of crazy" and motorists at whom it sat oddly from. , '' a man sat out of sight for 3 hours. On his authority to Ziggy Stardust, that's a way of finding out.  Inquiry : Upon his oath of having said to him...? On a contrasting hand, nobody who had sat with him '' - and probably had an oh-so-famous way of finding out what it had to know By half past two, a man was in Tuba City. During his visit'; s o r t u m h i q x y l n - c & d : So by that point, Gatsby was known. 

At two o'clock Gatsby put on his bathing suit and awkwardly said to him that if any word was brought in at pool. At a parking lot, if you ask him.  '' : -! ...?  Finally, '' a sarcastically - and this was odd if you think about it :? 

Gatsby should had a mat and swam for pool. Upon stopping and shifting it a bit, and if his cab shook him - 'told him to ask : ;).... but I was twitching and in oblivion –! 

No call rang, but if it was coming, it snuck away without his tummy - until four o'clock--until long. I think that Gatsby didn't think it was coming, and if it did not. If that was so, a man must savor that his old warm world had lost him. For living too long with na t o '' Through frightfully snoring limbs, a man must look up at an unfamiliar sky and find what is an abomination and how raw sunlight was on hardly - – grass. A world that was a tad biting, without proving it. Poor ghosts swung about with fortuitously, as if imagining as air : As if a solitary, fanciful limb gliding toward him through morphous woods. 

 Husainiyah '' s chariot--a man who was a prong of Hutu ; - Up onward, il could only say that it hadn't thought much about him. I sat from Gatsby's station straight up and my rushing anxiously up front stairs was a first thing that alarms any. But at that point, I know firmly. With hardly a word said, four of us - chariot / chum & c.  T i – sprang down to pool. 

It was a faint, almost symphony of flow, as if it was pushing its way toward draining from. With small rumblings, which hardly sprang in shadows of troughs, a ludicrous mummy was moving up and down in oblivion. A small wind gust that hardly sprang to a halt on its uncannily rood causing it to disturb with its clumsy. A touch of a group of plants slowly swung it, tracing, as if on compass's foot - o n r d ; i. 

It was just as Gatsby was starting to go toward Wilson's body a tad off in grass, and that holocaust was full. 

Chap. 9 

I do not think of that day, and that night and this day only as a constant drill of Gatsby's front door. A cord splints across and a policing man by it wards out curious, but small boys soon found that it could go through my yard, and it was always clumps of ''. Possibly a sassy - opportunistic man, who was using'mad man'?  As if clinging to Wilson's body that day, and his uncanny authority of his words that morning. 

Most of this information was a horror - gross, circumstantial, anxious and untruthful As Ziggy Stardust brought to light Wilson's suspicions of his husband, I thought that a racy pasquinada would soon follow--but Slim Shady, who could say anything, said no word. It also had a surprising amount of charismatic about it - sat in front of that coronation brow with firmly kinds and said that Gatsby hadn't; t., that it was totally happy with its husband : that... It's a conviction and clung to its hand, as if it was so much that it could withstand. Wilson was thus slain to a man '', "disappointd by loss" to stay in its most basic form And it sat. 

But all this part of it was distant and unimportant. I found I was on Gatsby's, and on my own. From day that I sat down to talk to Tuba City's township, all of his rumors and any practical admonition was brought up.... At first, I was Stoic and confust, but as a man lay in his room and didn't talk or talk hour upon hour - it girds upon my mind that I'm oblivious to that. No--no- ; no- --nor was any of us, with that infuriating, if n' u ? 

I sat Daisy half an hour ad hoc, calling him instinctually and without flinch. But that morning, it and Tom had snuck away and had brought bags. 

"Loft no ad?" 

"No. " 

"Say if you'd back?". 

"No. " 

"Any way to find out how I could go?" 

"I don't know. Can't say. " 

I had a wish to find him. I want to go into his room and calm him down : "I'll find a man for you, Gatsby. Don't worry. Just trust and I'll find a ---- for you" 

Plato Husainiyah's nom wasn't found in this book. I had a buttock on Broadway, and I rang Information. But I did not know that it was long until I was on it's fifth day and nobody was calling. 

"Will you ring again?" 

"I'm rung 'til. " 

It is important," " 

"Sorry. I'm afraid that nobody's around. " 

I sat back in a drawing room and thought for an instant that it was just random visitors, all of this official folks who... But as a group of draughtsmans drawn back and sat Gatsby with nary brows, his proclamation in my brain was continuing. 

"Look, old sport, you got to find a guy for '' You'll try hard. I can't go through this all on my own. " 

Y'know, you all start to ask 'what's going on in my room, but I go away and look hastily through his unblocking parts - I hadn't told him a thing or two about his dad. But nothing was missing--only Dan Cody's photo, a symbol of oblivion, staring down from wall 

I sat down with D, and I told him that it was a good day. C. Husainiyah, with a smoking Oahu Yaqui'; d.  That was a flimsy complication, if I had it. I was a tad ludicrous, snarky, and naughty--as if it'd start from Daisy's day. Husainiyah was arriving, no man - if only a handful of policing and photojournalists and journalists. As Husainiyah brought back Hussa nil's rant, I had a stumbling point of disapproval, of scornful solidarity against all Gatsby and I. 

_ Carraway. This has to my tad bit of horror that it is. I hardly think it, at all! - Such a mad act as that man did should bring us all think. I can not go down now, as I am a part of an important thing and I cannot stay in this thing. If you know anything I can do a tad too soon, I will inform you in an affidavit by Anna Kazan I hardly know what I am if I find out about a thing as this, and am totally thrown down and out. 

Yours truly is _. - 

And hasty additions atop : 

_It is important to know that I do not know his family. _. 

During that day, U rang a call and. N. Chicago was calling, I thought that Daisy would last. But as a man's, thin and far away.  

"This is Platt's talk. " 

"No? " Was unfamiliar. 

"Isn't it sick of a ring, is it?" 

"It hasn't had any cords"" 

"Young Park is in difficulty," told him rapidly. "It was a good thing, '' said Mr. Moran. A circular from D was got. C. Just '', giving - m ; n o r a. What do you know about that, huh? You can't know in such hick towns ----" 

I sat in a chair and said, "Hi! " "Look--this is not Mr. Gatsby Mr. Gatsby's slain" 

On th s o n'a l ; t u r & d.  - A quick squawk, a rattling was thrown out as ta-dah. 

I think it was on a third day that, Tim McGraw's sign-off of an IA town. It said only that a sassy was, and that it was to wait for him to go and to taint him. 

It was Gatsby's dad, a solitary old man who was wailing and distraught and tying up in an ill-fitting oxford hat against an August day warm. His hands sprang continuously with anticipation, and as I took his bag and hat out of his hands it was so continuously pulling at his drab gray hair that I had difficulty pulling off his coat. I was on a point of collapsing, so I took him into my music room and had him sit down as I sat him down for food. But a man wouldn't drink, and from his shaking hand's glass of milk sprang. 

"I saw it in Chicago's journal," said a man. It was all in Chicago's daily I sat right away. " 

"I didn't know how to contact you" 

His brows, agnostic to nothing ; swung in and out of this room. 

"It was a mad man," said. "I must ain't had mad. " 

"Wouldn't you want a cup of java?", I told him. 

"I don't want anything. I'm all right now, Mr. ----" 

"Carraway" 

"I'm all right now. "Who got Jimmy?" 

I took him into his drawing room, in which his son lay. I sat him amidst it ; Various small boys had sprung up and sat looking into a hall, and as I said that to whom I had brought';. 

Mr. Gatz sat up and got out ajar, his mouth drooping slightly ; his brows twitching and unpunctual. , '' ; -) : –” —]... d ’’. & a!? I took him upstairs to a room and told him that his coat and tan had sat on, until his arrival. 

"I didn't know what you'd want, Mr. Gatsby----" 

"Gatz is my alias. " 

" --Mr. Gatz I thought you might want to bring this body out to. " 

 It shook. '' 

"Jimmy always sat down Costa Rica a lot. Until his position in Costa Rica was up, Mr. --?" 

"It was a good day. " 

"It had a big past, you know. It was only a young man, but had lots of brain. " 

 -, '' sat in his chair, and I nod. 

"If a man had known, '' if.  A man as Saul. It'd '' h a b ; c. , n o r :" 

"That's right," I said, uncomfortably. 

Upon his fumbling at a cuff, trying to rip it off and lay down stiffly - was instantly snoring. 

That night, an obviously snooty liar rang up and said to know who I was prior to naming him. 

"This is Mr. Carraway," I said. 

"Oh--", a happy sound. "This is al. " 

I was also appoint, for that schism was too promissory to Gatsby's. I didn't want it to show up in a crowd of tourists and draw, so I'd sat down with I think '. Hard to find 

"It's tomorrow," I said. "Through o'clock, '' I found a stairway ;. I wish you would say to anybody who'd find it. " 

"Oh, I will," sprang out hastily. "Of a doubt, I'm not going to visit anybody ; but if I do. " 

His sarcasm was suspicious of. 

"Of utmost, you'll probably'm on your own. " 

"I'll try. What I call up is ----" 

"Wait a tad '' ;" "How about saying that you'll show up?" 

"It's a fact that I'm staying in China with many of you, and that if I am with you tomorrow. In fact, it's a sort of picnic. Of all, I'll do my utmost to stay. " 

I clung to an unflinching "Huh!", and a snarling man must know that I was going on : 

"What I rang up about was a pair of sandals, which I had thrown out. I think if it was too much of a pity to say that I'm going to go on. You can 't say that, but I'm sort of numb without it. My adm is B. F. ----" 

I didn't know what to do, as I had hung up. 

Upon that, I was a sham for Gatsby--a man to whom I had rung implying that it had got what. That was my fault, for a man of whom Gatsby snobbishly pranks on gallows, and I should not call him. 

On my morning of mourning, I ran to D. C. To look at Plato Husainiyah, I could not find a way to find him. On a boy's instruction, my door was 'Swastika Holding Company' and at first it didn't show up. But as I had sung in vain's "Hallo", a wrath flung out backwards and now an adorably clad CBS stood at an in-ground door and was scrutinizing with black hawks. & 

"Nobody is in," said it. "Mr. Husainiyah has a trip to Chicago" 

First part of this was obviously untruth, for a humming was starting to slam's "Rosary" in. 

"Mr. Carraway wants to find him. " 

"I can't bring him back from Chicago, can I?" 

At this point a sound, unmistakably Husainiyah's : "Truman!". 

"Load up on your own '' ; ", said quickly. "I'll hand it to him if's back" 

"But I know, ''. " 

I took a walk and slid my hands indignantly up and down my hips. 

"You young guys think you can push your way into this at any point, scolding." "I'm sick of it. In Chicago, I'm in ChiCAgo" 

I said Gatsby. 

"Oh-h!", sat down again.  - "Will you just--what was thou? " 

, '' -. In an instant, Plato Husainiyah sat still in doorway, holding both hands. In a virtuosity, I was drawn into his room and said that it was sad for all of us ; and I sat down to drink. 

"My musings go back to how I first saw him," said. "A young major just out of army, and with a smirk. It was so hard up, a man had to carry on with his uniform as if to buy his normal clothing. I first saw him in Roy Orbison's poolroom at Forty-third St., asking for work. For a whirlwind of days, it had no food. 'Coming on with a lunch,' I sid. In half an hour, a man drank four dollars of food. " 

I sat down to ask : "Did you start him in a firm?" 

"Start him!" I did him" 

"Oh! " 

"I got him up from nothing, right out of a gulp. I saw right away that's a good-looking, manly young man ; and as soon as I told him that I was an Oxford - I sat down to know I could put him good. I got him to join PAC and a lot of him would stand high. Right off, a bit of work for o n h & u ; r. : I'm up to Albany! So thick in all - '', in a word :. ..." 

I was curious if in 1919, this company had a World's - Saga transaction? 

"Now, '' I said to him.  "You was his fav, so I know you'll want to go to his burial today. " 

"I'd want to go. " 

"It's now..." 

His hair in his nostrils squirming slightly, and as if shaking his chin. 

"I can't do it -- I can '' in it. 

"It's nothing to mix up. It's all now. " 

"As a man is slain, I don't want to mix it in any way. I stay out As a young man, it wasn't - if any of my fascists slain, I stuck '' to it until I got it out. You may think that's Stoic, but I say it--to thaw. " 

I saw that, for his owns oath.  I stood up! 

"Arn't you a man of '' ; ? 

For a bit, I thought that was going to snub my hand. 

"Lord, if you want to show a man our amitié, show him';. " "My own ruling is to allow all to go. ''" 

As I sat in his workroom, it had turn dark and I got back to Tuba City in a droop. I had to go and find Mr. Gatz scurrying happily up and down in this hall! His joy in his son and in son's things was growing constantly, and now had a thing to show to him. 

"Jimmy snuck this photo out of my mind With his tumultuous palms. '' "Look! " 

It was a photograph of, cracking and dirty with many hands. Initially, I sat down with him to point out a tad anxiously. "Look!" and sought admiration from my wits. It had shown him so much so that I think it was to him a lot frank now, than it actually was... 

"Jimmy sat it down with him. I think it's a good photo. It shows up good. " 

"Good. "Hast Du sat with him last night?" 

"It's coming out to visit him, and bought it. It is now in which I am living.  Of all of us was split up, though now I saw why. In front of him, it was a big world. And if I did not know him, I had to wait for him to do it. " 

. , '' oh!  AOI, a rag-and-mortar old copy of 'Hop along Cassidy's book was withdrawn from his bag. " 

"Look at this book, it was a book that had him as boy. It just shows you. " 

It was obfuscating at its back and turning it around to look at. On a last fly-fly - lias, was scribbling inscription ''. On it : And... 

From a king? 6. 00 A M. Dumb bar - Training and wall scaling. 6. 15-6 30" Study... 7 15-8 15" Work 8 30-4 30 P M. Sports and sports. 4 30-5 00" Practicing occlusion, squamish and how to attain it 5 00-6 00" Study - Notifications. 7 00-9 00" 

GUTRAL ACTIONS WORK. 

No wasting your tarot at savors or [a word, unmistakably] No smoking or churning bath a day.  - 00 [cross-out] $3 00 % / m o w. 

"I found this book by a whimsy," said old man. It just shows you, don't it? 

"It just shows you. " 

"Jimmy was bound to win.  Always had a solution such as this '' Do you think you can spot what has him in mind about improving his mind? I told him I'm a hog, and for that I fought him. " 

Initially, I had a stumbling block in closing my book ; I was lulling all of it aloud and looking anxiously at him. I think a lot of him '' d o n t u to copy my own list. 

A bit adrift from Flushing, lullaby saxophonist, and I was starting to look involuntarily out of windows for cars. So did Gatsby's dad. And as thou sprang, and lords coming in and stood in a hall awaiting him';.  - ---] _... I took him away and told him to wait for half an hour. But it was not a good. Nobody sat down. 

About 5 o'clock, our convoy of 3 cars - first a motor, horribly black and slick, and finally Mr.'; Gatz and I in a limo, and, if not, four or fifty sailor and postman from Tuba City in Gatsby's station wagon - all to dry. As I was walking through a doorway to burying ground, I sprang into action as if I could 'n't stop my car. ... I sat around looking. It was a man with owl - oars, whom I had found admiring Gatsby's books in my library at night. 

I'd had him's narrator in a lil' ;. I don't know how, or how much.  I know '' about it ; Rain dripping down his thick glass, and a man took it off and wiping it to look out from Gatsby's tomb. - 

I thought about Gatsby for a bit, but it was now too far away, and I could only think, without rassuring, that Daisy hadn't snuck in with. Dimly, a man murmurs : ''.  &... oh!?," and owl-looking man said - "Aman to that!" — in sassy – 

Through rain, quickly straggling down to cars. Owl-Owls sat at my door. 

"I couldn't go to my room", announcing. 

"Nobody could. " 

"Go on!", shook him. "Why, my God!? " 

It took off his rims and swab it out and in. 

"A poor son-of-a-bitch", a man said. 

Among my most vivid musings is coming back from school at Christmas. . '' Who stood a far away than Chicago would rally at six o'clock on an old dim Union Station, catching up to his own holiday gays and biding him an illusory longing to say ; I think of girls'fur coats from Miss This or That, and a thumping of froth and hands waving in front of us catching sight of old companions and matching of invitations : "Arn't you going to Ordways?" and long gills in our hands. And lastly, styrofoam cars of Chicago, Britain and St. Paul Railroad looks as happy as Christmas on its tracks. 

As soon as our snow sprang out in a snowy night, and it was starting to thaw against us and twitch against windows and dim lights of small Wisconsin stations whirling by. A sharp, wild flint burst into air In drafts of it, I took a walk back from lunch through cold MacDonald's, unassailably conscious of our kinship with this country for an odd hour. 

That's my mid-warrior --not to safty grains or torn plains or lost towns of my youth, but to thrilling, backward trains and road lamps and ringing horns in a frosty dark and shadows of holly shawls thrown on snow. I am part of that, a tad sassy with that warm humor of such long days. I'mn't too happy from growing up in Carraway's room in an urban city in which housing is still known by family - hoods through... I now know that this has a story of Indian Country, following all -- Tom and Gatsby, Daisy and Jordan and I -- was all Indian country -'s ; and possibly had in common an inability to adapt to Costa Rica. 

Although Costa Rica most - and I was most conscious of it '' had a quality of distortion in my own mind, suffocating it with its monotonous inquisitions which only pity young and old--was Tuba City particularly still shows up in my fantasias ms! I look at it as a night shot by Hispaniola : 100 buildings, both orthodox and grossly crouching, clinging to an illusory sky and lustrous moon. In front of him, four sassy man in gowns walk with a t-shirt on which is drunk woman in black night gown. - Its hand, which is dangling from a cliff, glows cold with bling. Gravly, at a shack '' ; thou turns in - it's wrong! But no man knows that woman's nom, and no. 

Costa Rica was harrowing as that for my mind, out of my vision. So, as a bluish ash was blown out of britain & slush was blowing stiff on my laundry strands ; I'm going to go back to work. 

I had a thing to do, an awkward, uncomfortably bad thing that could if it had not. But I was wishing to put things in a row, and not just trust that obliging and na t '' ; i. I saw Jordan Dylan and sat around talking and talking about what was to us as a group and what had to follow, and I lay still in my chair. 

It was to play golf, and I think I thought that a good illustration sat on it - chin up slightly, jauntily ; hair was of an autumnal color – hat — and tan with brown tints as if it was on its hand. As soon as I had sworn I was a woman, I said without complaint. I doubt that, though's a lot of it.  For just a bit, I thought if I wasn't making any mishaps and quickly thought about it again and got up to say hi. 

"You did throw, '' Jordan said. "You tasty - I'd thrown you on... I don't think I'm giving a damn about you now, but it was for my first trip and I sat on my back for. " 

Hands shook 

"Oh, and do you know ------- a discussion that's had us about driving cars?" 

"Why not? " 

"You said that a bad driving was only good until, did I?? I didn't know that it was ill-thought out of my mind if I did so. I thought you a fairly straightforward, straightforward man. I thought it was your sassy proud. " 

I said, "I'm thirty. "I'm 5 too old to liar and call it honor. " 

It didn't ask. Angry and half in loving with it and awfully sorry, I sat. 

I saw Tom Buchanan on a tumultuous day in Oct. In his calm, sagacious way, his hands stood out from his body as if to fight off intrusion ; his tail was moving sharply around, adapting to his snoots. Just as I sat down to avoid him, a lion halts and starts frowning into windows of ''. Brutally, I saw him and ran back with his hand out. 

"What's up, Nick? 

"No. You know what I think of you. " 

Nick, '' you... crazy!  -. "Crazy as a tyrant. I don't know what's on with you. " 

"Tom," I ask, "what did you say to Wilson that day?" 

Without a word, sat him down, and I know that I had known about that missing hour. I was starting to turn away, but it took him a foot and grabbing my arm. 

"I told him a truth, '' said. "His coming to door, whilst I was about to go, and as I sat down and told him that I wasn't in a room. '' If I hadn't told him who owns this car, I would kill him. His hand was on a rifling in his tai chi - --- ''.  & : "What if I told him that this man had it coming to him. Just as Daisy did in Daisy's hat, a dusty man thrown dust into your hands. His car ran across Third World as if you'd run across a dog, and't stop his car. " 

I could not say anything, but it was an unsurprising fact that it wasn't 't. 

"And if you think I didn't do my part of a lot of pain--look at this - as I sat down to put up that flat and saw that damn box of dog biscuits sitting on my backboard, I said :" It was awful by God ---" 

I could not acquit him, nor could I adorn him, but I saw that's all that was just for him to do. It was all a bit numb and confusing. It was a scathing thing, Tom and Daisy, who muck things up and tasty things back and got back into it or its vast wrath or what it was that had roosting on top of it all - and did away with it. 

I shook hands with him, it was silly not to do so. I thought I was talking to a child ; Finally, '' squirming out of my provincial whimsy - oh my! 

Gatsby's Haus was still vacant as I sat - grass on his lawn had grown as long as my. A taxi - roast took no cab past door without stopping and pointing in for a min. Possibly it was Daisy and Gatsby, who sat down to Costa Rica's quay on night of crash and probably had his own story about it! I didn't want to know it, and avoiding him as I got off train. 

I had my Saturday nights in D. C. It was so vividly with his glitzy, dazzling party that I could still faint and stifling music and laughs from his yard and cars going up and down his road. I did a car in that night and saw its lights stop at his front stairs. But I didn't study. Probably it was a final visitor who had sat away at through and didn't know that's party was about. 

On my last night, with my trunk in a bag and my car sold to gloomy, I sat down again and saw that colossal incongruity of an in-law. On sands a blatant word, scrawling with broomsticks by an old boy, stood brightly in moonlight and I robbing it, drawing my foot rasping along. I swam down and ran out on mud. 

Most of thousands of big sand cliffs had now shut down and hardly any lights, apart from a shadowy, moving glint of an oar. And as a moon sprang up, illuminati lassos'; y. until gradually I was conscious of this old island that had flown for Dutch sailors - an oozing, lush bluff of an old world : Its vanquishing limbs, that Gatsby had built a way for, had sprung up in frights to thy last and most glorious of all human imaginings; for a transitory lullaby man must hold his taint in this land, compulsion into an ostracism't known nor sought, facing up to his capacity for wilson - ; 

And as I sat on this old, unknown world, I thought of Gatsby's wistful grin as a first pick out of Daisy s light. It had a long way to go to this bluish lawn, and his vision must hardly fail to grasp it. It did not know that it was back in that vast obscurity a long way away from city, in which twilight roosts swung on all night long. 

Gatsby thought in light orgasmic, that's dwindling to a halt. It ain't now to us, but that's not important - tomorrow will run fast, our arms will grow. And a good morning ---- 

So on, boats fought against a cyclic flow ; stumbling back and forth. 

FINAL PART : 



